================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: qkjJAzAnyXk
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qkjJAzAnyXk
TITLE: Ep 418: What Just Happened Between India & Pakistan?
CHANNEL: The Seen and the Unseen
PUBLISHED: 2025-05-19
DURATION: 2h 29m 47s
VIEWS: 13,636
LIKES: 185
COMMENTS: 22

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
Why did the attacks in Pahalgam happen? What took place in the skirmishes after that? What have we learnt about geopolitics and our military preparedness? Pranay Kotasthane and Aditya Ramanathan join Amit Varma in episode 418 of The Seen and the Unseen to try to clear some of the fog of war.  (FOR FULL LINKED SHOW NOTES, GO TO SEENUNSEEN.IN.)  Also check out: 1. Pranay Kotasthane on Twitter, LinkedIn, Amazon and the Takshashila Institution. 2. Aditya Ramanathan on Twitter, LinkedIn, Instagram and the Takshashila Institution. 3. Puliyabaazi — Pranay Kotasthane’s podcast (with Saurabh Chandra &amp; Khyati Pathak). 4. Anticipating the Unintended — Pranay Kotasthane and Raghu Sanjaylal Jaitley’s newsletter. 5. All Things Policy -- The Takshashila Institution's podcast. 6. Pranay Kotasthane Talks Public Policy — Episode 233 of The Seen and the Unseen. 7. The India-Pakistan Conflict -- Episode 111 of The Seen and the Unseen (w Srinath Raghavan). 8. Democracy in Pakistan -- Episode 79 of The 
... [truncated]

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 157
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: easysub-api
Language: en
Word count: 27,570

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
Walter Lipman's great book, Public Opinion, begins with the following paragraph. There is an island in the ocean where in 1914 a few Englishmen, Frenchmen, and Germans lived. No cable reaches Red Island, and the British male steamer comes but once in 60 days. In September, it had not yet come and the islanders were still talking about the latest newspaper which rolled about the approaching trial of Madame Kellog for the shooting of Gaston Kalmeth. It was therefore with more than usual eagerness that the whole colony assembled at the quay on a day in midepptember to hear from the captain what the verdict had been. They learned that for over 6 weeks now, those of them who were English and those of them who were French had been fighting in behalf of the sanctity of treaties against those of them who were Germans. For six strange weeks, they had acted as if they were friends when in fact they were enemies. End quote. So basically, World War I had begun, but for weeks none of these people even knew that their countries were at war. Similarly, when it ended, many of them kept fighting for weeks till the news got to them. Then there's a crazy story of Hiro Onada, a Japanese soldier who was stationed at Lubang Island during the Second World War and kept fighting there till 1974 because he refused to believe the war was over. My point is that we once lived in a time where information traveled slowly and the fog of war was basically a fog of information. You'd imagine that this has changed today and with so much technology around us, lack of information is no longer a problem. Well, here's the thing. Lack of information isn't. But what about the abundance of information? What if there is so much conflicting info around and so many narrative battles and so many echo chambers that the fog of war continues? Indeed, through this recent conflict between India and Pakistan, starting with the terrorist attacks in Pahelgam, there was indeed a fog of war as we weren't quite clear about what was happening. The hyper nationalists in both countries went wild with crazy stories and even in more reasonable circles, one could not be sure of the truth. Sometimes it seemed that all news was false, even if some news was useful. Well, one of the reasons I'm doing this episode is to cut through some of that fog. My guests today are experts I trust, who are basically the best analysts on Indian foreign policy and military affairs. I hope this conversation helps you as much as it helped me. Welcome to the Scene and the Unseen, our weekly podcast on economics, politics, and behavioral science. Please welcome your host Amit BMA. Welcome to the scene in the unseen. My guests today are Prane Kotasan and Adita Ramnathan of the Takshila Institution. And yes, my last episode was a topical one with Pray and RJ on the cast census and this one also happens to be a topical miniature. I have had episodes before on Indian foreign policy, on Pakistan, on IndiaPakistan relations in general and the purpose for this episode is much more narrow. It is about this particular conflict starting with the terrorist attack in Palgam and ending with the deescalation after the air battles that then took place. I had a small set of questions for Prananead. One, why did the Palam attacks happen? Two, what was the status quo before that in terms of both foreign policy and the military? three, how did the conflict play out after this? And four, where do things stand now? Again, with regard to both foreign policy and the military preparedness of both sides. This episode, therefore, is another miniature at just over a couple of hours. My previous deep dives will be linked from the show notes. Pran, of course, is a deep expert in foreign policy and public policy, and this is his 15th episode on this podcast. Adita makes his debut, but I really should have had him on earlier. He's one of our finest minds on military affairs, as you will soon discover. Before we begin this conversation though, let's take a quick commercial break. Do you want to read more? I've put in a lot of work in recent years in building a reading habit. This means that I read more books, but I also read more long- form articles and essays. There's a world of knowledge available through the internet. But the problem we all face is how do we navigate this knowledge? How do we know what to read? How do we put the right incentives in place? Well, I discovered one way. A couple of friends of mine run this awesome company called CTQ Compounds at ctmpounds.com which aims to help people uplevel themselves by reading more. A few months ago, I signed up for one of their programs called the Daily Reader. Every day for 6 months, they sent me a long form article to read. The subjects covered went from machine learning to mythology to mental models and marmalade. This helped me build a habit of reading. At the end of every day, I understood the world a little better than I did before. So, if you want to build your reading habit, head on over to CTQ Compounds and check out their daily reader. New batches start every month. They also have a great program called Future Stack, which helps you stay upto-date with ideas, skills, and mental models that will help you stay relevant in the future. Future Stack Batches start every Saturday. What's more, you get a discount of a whopping 2500 rupees, 2,500 if you use the discount code unseen. So head on over to CTQ compounds at ctqocompounds.com and use the code unseen uplevel yourself. Prane and Adita welcome to the seen in the unseen. Thanks Amit. Great to be here. Awesome. So uh uh Adita this is your first time here and typically for anyone's first time here we will we would do a deep personal bio lasting a few hours but this is not that kind of episode we are going into uh a particular subject so we'll save that for the next time you're on and I'm confident there'll be more times but nevertheless can you give the listeners and me a little potted uh history of how you've arrived at where you've arrived at uh you know being the foremost military strategist at Takshila. Oh wow. Uh that's kind but so uh it's a a combination of uh long-standing interests and happen stance. Uh for a large chunk of my career I've been a journalist and but I was always interested in these things and uh whenever I get the opportunity I would cover issues around foreign policy and strategic affairs. Uh I the first time I cut my teeth on this was uh as a student journalist uh uh witnessing u you know negotiations for the 123 agreement the last stages of the India US nuclear deal. while in Washington and yeah it's really been uh something I've I've been really interested in. Uh 2019 I I took Takushila's uh defense and foreign affairs course the very first cohort the organization I'm sorry excuse me I took the course in 2018 and I joined the organization and uh I've it's been a steep learning curve since then and yeah that's that's really the boring uh but honest answer of why I've ended up here. Wonderful. And you know I've uh worked with you a little bit u back in the day and you also started a couple of excellent uh podcasts for Takashila. You were the driving force behind all things policy for a while which I remember fondly. I you know I was jealous that I'm not in Bangalore otherwise I would have loved to be uh also involved in being a participant in that sometimes. It's an absolutely awesome show. Here's another question. At Takishila in a sense you combine two roles. one is a role of research and of being a public intellectual of uh gathering a lot of knowledge and understanding and then get getting those insights out there as you've done through your podcasts and your writings and so on. At the same time, the particular area where u you have made yourself one of the most respected voices and I say this advisedly because I recently came to know that a top former air force person led your military columns and said that this guy is the one guy in this uh in the media space of this country who really gets it. So I've heard some pretty amazing things about your work. But to go back to the question on the one hand there is the imperative of doing research and being a public intellectual and getting ideas out there which might often involved reason critiques of what the establishment is doing. And on the other hand uh because you're covering a sensitive area there's also the question of access and uh you know keeping the trust of the establishment so you get all the information that um uh you get. So how do you think about this? How do you sort of balance this? How do you think about you know your duty in a sense of being a public intellectual and at the same time the uh the importance of safeguarding the national interest as it were and this is one of those rare uh research areas in which the two can be at cross purposes sometimes. Yeah. Uh that's a great question. So they are sometimes at cross purposes but I think I've just been very lucky in that we we haven't had any big clashes of that sort. Um you do have to think sometimes about when you want to criticize how you want to frame that you want to frame it constructively and that's just part of the Tishala way because we want to get people to understand our point of view. We don't budge from our point of view uh we have uh our point of views are based on principle. So we when we have a certain evolved institutional point of view we put it across uh and we try and put it across in a constructive way that you know others can work with. Besides that, of course, you know, there are some things on which all of us have differing opinion. That's that's normal and that's, you know, part of the fun of being in a think tank. To my mind, I'm I'm also fortunate because uh we ended up working quite a bit directly with folks from the armed forces, interacted with them, and it's always been uh it's it's been constructive, right? So uh even when for example I've had disagreements uh with say folks in the air force uh about uh for example how uh India's uh military space should be organized uh it's it's generally been taken in very good spirits those same people with whom I you know have somewhat heated debates with always you know that that those relationships haven't been affected. So uh in that sense I've been very lucky and uh it it's actually been not been that hard. Awesome. Before we kind of uh you know get to what happened and what we have learned through it and all of that I'd kind of like some perspective on where we were before the pahelam attacks and I'd like it across I think two different dimensions. One is a dimension of foreign policy itself. Uh we've done previous episodes on foreign policy spoken a lot about um India Pakistan um you know including episodes with you prane in the past where you know you've given us uh um briefings into the Pakistani people the Pakistani military jihadi complex and how we've got to regard them as different from each other etc etc and I'll link to all those episodes in the show notes uh and and the the the second area in which I'd like to get a sense of where we were is just in sense of military capabilities because there are many conflicting opinions that float around around that also and how both nations being nuclear affected that again I've had an episode on both nations being nuclear with general prakash man who is your colleague at takshila so I'll ask you for a brief ported understanding of both of these areas first to talk about foreign policy that where were we let's say on the evening before the pelgam attacks happened that over time how has our foreign policy and our approach evolved how has their approach evolved you We have of course fought the hyphenation in the world's eyes where India Pakistan would always be hyphenated and we are like no no no we are we are a much bigger nation we are playing a different kind of game don't do that etc etc also we have fought the centrality of Kashmir whenever India Pakistan issues are discussed but overall as time has passed uh and especially over the last um just over a decade of this administration um how has our foreign policy evolved when it comes to Pakistan and And obviously not just when it comes to Pakistan because how our foreign policy has evolved with respect to the US and China affects our relations with Pakistan. So give me a sort of understanding of uh you know where that stood before the attacks happened. So I'll begin on this. Uh so uh Amit if we we've looked at MJC as you already said Pakistani military jihadi complex and that occupies the heights of power in Pakistan right? But feel free to give a sort of potted uh sense of that also like any useful framework that you used to look at this. Let's assume that no one listening to this has heard the previous episode. So you know so uh Amit let's begin with the Pakistani military jihadi complex and what we say is that uh this is Nitan's formulation the MJC and we' written a paper on this. So the Pakistani military jihadi complex uh is something that occupies the commanding heights of power in Pakistan. So we think of Pakistan as two entities. So it is like your batting and there are two bowlers bowling at you simultaneously. Right? Whereas a Pakistani uh uh society the putitative state which has a flag which has its own national anthem so on and so forth. But then the one which is occupying the power occupying all the control over many of the things is the Pakistani military jihadi complex. It is not just the military as people like to think right. So this is a uh dense complex network of various elements. It includes crime syndicates. It it includes jihadi organizations. It includes the military. It includes some for-profit organizations. And they are all connected in one way or the other. They have a common purpose sometimes or at least a broad common objective. And uh there there are various interconnections between them. So this military jihadi complex is the one uh which is also Pakistan's biggest problem to towards Pakistan's own people. Right? So there are various people within Pakistan who speak about it and they have given various names to this formulation. So this is what the MJC was. So a lot of what we'll be discussing uh takes into account this distinction between MJC and uh Pakistan right. So if you look at uh the last 10 15 years uh there was uh the big changes that have happened are as follows according to me. One uh there is uh of course Pakistan's economic position itself has uh weakened right. So uh the military jihadi complex still was able to extract the resources that it wanted but Pakistan has not been able to improve economically the way it would have wanted to. So all of that has come at the cost of uh Pakistani people. There have also been uh various kinds of terror attacks within Pakistan the TTP etc involved. So a lot of the things that they had created, the MJC had created came back to bite them uh over the last 1015 years. So that realization came first within Pakistan. A lot of people started speaking up that uh you know maybe the strategies that we were using might not be the way going forward. So that was a conversation with in the Pakistani intelligencia and the people uh not so much in the NJC but that was going on right. So uh that was one. Uh on the other hand, India's obviously India's economic growth has been much better uh with a comparison with Pakistan. So that those trajectories somewhat diverse, right? So uh that was one big difference. Now related to that uh the difference was Pakistani MJC always depends on some external benefactor. So it was the US earlier and in recent years it has been China. But uh an external benefactor is very important for them to continue their prog project and to be able to extract money from outside and do things. So the big difference like you mentioned about hyphenation has been that because of the change in economic trajectories because of the fact that Afghanistan is no longer as important to the US than as it was uh 20 years ago. the importance of the Pakistani military jihadi complex to the west and the US declined whereas the importance of India to the US and the west increased because of the US China US China contestation. So that was one big difference where US India uh relationship no longer mentions Pakistan or is not even concerned with that. So if you look at the last few joint statements between Indian PM and president, they'll be talking about technology cooperation and all those things. There's no relation to Pakistan with that. So that was one big difference is something that the MJC would be observing very closely and probably feeling sudden about it also that it is being left out. There's nothing for them to uh do. So that uh one big feeling must be there back home. Uh the second uh idea that India had with respect to uh Pakistan over the last 10 years was that because we have many other things to do there's China to handle there is uh US relationship technology etc. So the strategy was we'll ignore Pakistan like the best way is we will uh just keep them out of the conversation with us like we don't want to uh get involved and get sucked into bringing peace in uh Pakistan or changing things so we'll just ignore them uh let them be. The Indian foreign minister also made it a point to generally not even mention Pakistan by name. So used to call him the western neighbor and things. So generally you do what you want to do. We let us do what we want to do. Okay. So that was the thing. This continued within and within Pakistan itself there were big changes right. So first the MJC started getting some push back and then it brought when Nawas Sharif was in power. Nawas Sharif tried to bring the MJC uh on track but obviously because MJC is powerful it kicked Nawas Sharif out and then brought Imran Khan in. uh and then Imran Khan became reasonably popular and in fact he started contesting a lot of the things that the MJC uh was saying. So one unique thing we saw over the last few years was actually Imran Khan became so popular that uh the MJC's legitimacy slightly reduced. In fact, there there were protests in Pakistan after Imran Khan was arrested and there were uh people throwing stones at the Pakistani armies. Uh some officers residences, some people uh stormed a few facilities and things like that, right? That was not things that you would hap would happen earlier. So this was one time where actually the Pakistani army's legitimacy slightly uh reduced. So uh the MJC was under a bit of pressure to show that it has to do something to stay relevant. It is under those circumstances that the new army chief came in uh which is uh General Aim Munir. So he came in and he has he's coming in at a time when the MJC is under pressure when people still think that Imran Khan was the one who should have won the elections even though he was in the jail. his party was not allowed to contest but people who were who contested as independents who were clearly PTI uh people were won a lot of seats so but still the MJC brought in Nawas Sharif's party back into power with Shahabas Sharif at the forefront so it is just musical chairs you know MJC is still holding the chair someone else comes and sits there so MJC is still there and that that's where Aim Munir has a point to prove that you know he they are still relevant and they want to show things uh and and that they still control the commanding heights of power and they are also capable of handling other adversaries that the Pakistan uh Pakistan MJC reckons. So this is broadly how I would put uh the uh Pakistan's domestic uh trajectory and how India has sort of managed it as well. I I want to just mention China point as well. as the US involvement in since 2016 once Trump came in first he said he'll do something about Afghanistan but then Biden administration the US went back so Taliban is in power and the US is not so uh interested in that region the Afak region so for them that was not a big concern for Pakistan a lot of the things became through China and China is not like the US in the sense that it doesn't give the kind of grants, the kind of free money that the US gets. Obviously, uh China is $12,500 per capita versus $64,000 per capita. So, China's relationship with Pakistan was conditional but largely related to this China Pakistan economic corridor which was supposed to be a flagship project which will bring a lot of uh good things to Pakistan. uh it was a flagship project of for China as well under the belt and road initiative. Uh not a lot of it got delivered but still China and Pakistan did get entangled a lot and that involved government-to-government relations, people-to-people relations and markettomarket relations as well. So uh that we'll come to that how Chinese military also supported Pakistan and things like that. So that is one. The other big milestone uh that I I'll say this and stop is the is the removal of article 370 in India. So that was one thing which happened and again India's stance was that this is our territory. We will this is part of India. We are doing things according to the constitution. So we'll do that. Uh that in Pakistan again was because Pakistan has its designs over J&K etc. it there was a feeling that you know something big has changed uh and uh but there was no immediate uh action after that uh but that was one big political thing that happened uh amidst this in between there have been skirmishes there was first the UI attack in 2016 to which India responded with surgical strikes then uh there was uh another attack the patankot attack, right? And then there was the Balacode strikes. Uh and so the these things kept happening and the stance of India was uh beginning to change in the sense that if there are terrorist attacks within India which are above a particular threshold, India will respond uh and India will respond through the use of conventional forces. So first time it was just entering into Pakistani territory and trying to take out a few terror camps. The second time it happened uh the uh response was slightly higher because air power was used uh but again it was used in Pakistan occupied Jammu and Kashmir and this is the third uh big event which happened on April 2022 which led to certain other things. So that's how I would sort of frame it. Adita did I miss any major milestone? No, I think you've uh got it uh right. Uh it's just that uh Balakot is technically inside Kyber Pakuna. So uh in 2019 India actually hit Pakistan proper. So a couple of um follow-up questions before I turn to Adita for the military component of this question and um one of them is and I'll ask both of them together. There are really many questions. One of them is how much of a monolith is a military jihadi complex? Like what kind of control does a military actually have over uh the jihadi part of the equation? And even the jihadi part of the equation may not be monolithic. There might be different fragments of it. And that becomes an important question when you want to consider that how much of the terrorist activity is actually planned and dictated by the army itself and uh how much could be uh you know rogue players or players who are not entirely in control. And the second part of the question related is that uh you know you've outlined how India's approach was just to ignore Pakistan and forget about it. But what was Pakistan's approach towards uh India? Did they also kind of move away or was India still central to their justification for the military having a prominent part in uh Pakistani affairs? Yeah. So MGC obviously it's a complex system which means that uh it is not as if it everything is centrally directed and it is controlled others they have a common purpose they have a common principles and things like being antagonistic towards India are very uh central themes which join all the elements of this uh complex right so within that there might be rogue actors there are other elements but I would say from if you look at the connection between the army and the jihadi node. When it comes to Pakistan's western border, the relationship between these two nodes are not that strong. So for example, Afghan Taliban is something Pakistan has supported. But not everything that Afghan Taliban does is always dictated by Pakistan. Uh so that in that sense the control over that subnode of the jihadi organization is weaker for the Pakistani MJC. But when you look at Pakistan's eastern border, so a lot of the things that happen in India, they definitely have a lot of connections with the Pakistani military jihadi complex. So it might not be that specific operations are always directed but there is it is very wellnown documented cases of how Pakistani army officers have trained the le uh folks. some people uh there there have also been joint operations where there will be le folks and the regular army Pakistani army soldiers. So in that sense the connection is much stronger with respect to what happens in India rather than what happens in Afghanistan or Iran. Awesome. and and and and what about um uh you know the second part of the question which was about uh you know has their foreign policy also kind of moved away or has that stayed the same simply because um uh you know the uh that is how the military can justify its continued dominance. Yeah. So their policy has actually not changed much because it is the Pakistani military jadi complex which is at in control. Right. So they would have the putitative state of Pakistan would have wanted to do things. So in fact when Nawas Sharif was in power last time he did uh make statements. In fact at that point of time the chief of army staff of Pakistan army was Baja General Baja and he also mentioned that you know this is we should do our own things. We are not so bothered about uh the biggest threats come from within. We have to solve things here etc. So those kinds of statements were trying to make the point that uh India has been making that we let's sort out our own uh problems and we don't need to bother about each other but that is not what the overall MJC uh was uh attuned to because MJC survival depends on being a very uh anti-India outfit and that's why uh some of these attempts were actually seen very negatively they were one of the causes for why Nawas Sharif was booted out because they were saying like how can you come and dictate to me like the foreign policy is not your job prime minister it is the job of the Pakistani military jihadi complex who are you so those kinds of things uh eventually led to his ouster so for MGC this is uh this is like their survival issue you know and for them uh the what happened in JNK also was something that they would have watched closely. They passed some resolutions etc. So for them it was a big issue. So they they have not been able to do the same thing as India has. They have always been look looking at what India is doing at at times also there has been that envy that India has been able to do things that they are not and they are falling out of the conversation like the US folks are not asking them. uh there are there's no coalition support funds coming for them to uh run their own gravy train. So there are things that they were missing out on. I remember when I was traveling through Pakistan in 2006 with the Indian cricket team for the cricket tour, a Pakistani economist told me that they would refer to al-Qaeda as alida because before 9/11 the economy was practically falling apart and then the foreign aid flooded in and you know so al-Qaeda is ala over there. Adita, so let me turn to you and um ask about something that in a sense there has been a fog over. Nobody really knows this. People can only speculate that how do the two militaries of these countries stack up against each other because obviously the military is a core focus of uh Pakistan whereas it has never been so central or so important in India. Equally there is a dynamic that when we went nuclear before that people say that hey we had a far stronger conventional army but the uh the nuclear deton kind of that dynamic equalized at and therefore did we really have dominance if they could threaten to go nuclear at any point. Beyond that one hears about how our conventional forces have kind of declined. how so much of the weaponry is old Soviet style weaponry which is outdated that the um army itself is like this big bloated bureaucracy. People say every general is fighting the last war but some say that these guys are fighting wars even before that and everything is archaic and outdated like any big oified organization tends to be. Others point out that hey no the air force and the navy are relatively more nimble and etc etc. But because we haven't been in a war for so long, uh the sense was that hey, nobody really knows, you know, how good are our planes, how good are our weapons, where do things stand, um you know, how strategically and tactically nimble are we or would we be in the battlefield? How would that match up against what they would do? And um how does being nuclear affect all of this? So give me a sense of that. Let's say take me to the state of understanding and the state of affairs before the attacks. like obviously after the attacks what happened in the last few days we have got a tremendous amount of insight into both armies uh a lot of it heartening for us and I'll ask you to elaborate on that later but first give me where things stood uh you know a week ago sure uh from the Indian perspective uh the sober uh perspective it it you know we we have reason to believe that India has some conventional superiority over Pakistan uh but it isn't all that great because Indian power is necessarily uh uh dissipated because you have essentially two fronts to deal with. In fact, what we've seen since 2020 with Galwan is actually having India having to move um uh troops uh from the western front uh to the northern front. So because India has these two fronts to deal with uh it does find itself a bit stretched at the moment and uh achieving uh conventional superiority at specific areas uh is not as easy. uh uh for India with Pakistan. Having said that uh since uh air power is what came into play this time uh air power is tends to be more funible because simply because you can move aircraft from from one place to another really quickly. Uh and uh you know so in terms of numbers India does does for for example continue to have an advantage. Uh it has maybe 150 more uh frontline combat aircraft than Pakistan. Uh and you know it has a fairly good support uh infrastructure for that. It has better better heavy lift. You know it has much better air defenses as as we've seen in the last few days. But um you know other places uh those those advantages uh start to equalize. So in terms of uh you know actual air operations uh with planes skills of pilots uh information fusion uh within the systems access to technology uh Pakistan does fairly well. Uh Pakistan also has a smaller navy than India. But again Pakistan's navy is its mandate at least so far has been more limited uh to simply uh protecting Pakistan sealanes and you know uh warding off Indian attacks on the Arabian Sea. Uh Pakistan does have ambitions to be a a larger western Indian Ocean power but that's going to require a lot more capital expenditure from them. Um Pakistan would also like uh to you know there's there's been talk in Pakistan that they would like to take their nuclear deterrent to sea like India. Uh but that's again uh not that easy. Uh you you you will need to even if you use conventionally powered submarines uh you know their ability to uh go out far into the oceans is limited and you know uh you have to develop submarine launch ballistic missiles or you know or have cruise missiles which is another option Pakistan has. So you you know it's it's a little more complicated uh for Pakistan there. Having said that um you know for an economy that is what less than 10% of India's size uh it's punching above its weight. Um so uh you know it's it would be very dangerous for India to uh underestimate Pakistani capabilities as well as uh operational professionalism of of the Pakistan armed forces. um you know in terms of how that stacks up uh you know with this current conflict uh I think it's more uh I think we I think it's more complicated so uh what India sought to do as pran said uh from 2016 onwards is is to uh raise the costs for Pakistan so 2016 you know after the Uri attack doing this crossber cross LOC raid was you know it it it was a bit different but it you know was still within the range of what had been done before really since the 1990 what was actually perhaps most dramatically different was that India went public with it and went loudly public with it. 2019 is uh the big break because you're suddenly using air power and you're using it on Pakistani soil and the Pakistanis responded with the sort of symbolic attack uh near an an Indian military facility. So you know that that's a different uh ball game altogether and uh you know whatever the actual tactical consequences of the Balacode strikes and uh the Pakistani retaliation there were good reasons in India to believe that uh India had successfully raised the costs for the Pakistanis because any kind of conventional clash is very difficult to predict and uh you know over a long prolonged conflict uh Pakistan is likely to come worse off. So even if you know in a in a short skirmish Pakistan you know believes it it's uh uh shown its ascendancy over India over a prolonged conflict that's likely to be reversed. So you know there's some reason to believe that and you know this is this is necessarily uh a little squishy because deterrence is ultimately in the eyes of the beholder right so when uh an adversaries um is deterred it's b they basically think the costs outweigh the benefits now I don't think uh any of us actually believe that MJ the MJC sponsorship of terrorism and you know is going to stop or that we are not going to see any more mass casualty attacks in India but it's possible that By raising the costs, this this becomes less frequent. So, you know, we don't have a lot of data points here, but you know, there is a six-year gap between 2019 and and 2025. So, you have uh you know, that that to go by. When you want to prove deterrence, you would like to have both a good theory of deterrence and good empirical evidence. So right u so what just to give you a trivial example if I put a if I have a dog at home and I put a beware of dog sign there and I have no burglaries uh I can maybe say that I've deterred burglaries right now if the dog I have is is this ferocious pitbull and it's a bad neighborhood and my neighbors have been burgled but I haven't I both have a good theory of uh deterrence in that I have this ferocious dog and I have good empirical evidence that I haven't been burgled while my neighbors have But if um if you live in a really safe neighborhood and you have a golden retriever that specializes in wet sloppy licks uh you know you have both a poor theory of deterrence and low empirical evidence. I think with Bala court you have a good theory of uh deterrence uh because India has successfully demonstrated the cost of this kind of terrorism will uh go up. Uh you know the empirical evidence is there but you know it's it's it's a couple of data points so it's it's not that great. uh so I think India had a good case for that and I think that was what really convinced India that it needed to continue going down this path uh with uh you know after after pelgam happened. Now as far as what happened uh in Pelgam um from what we understand yeah uh Pran jump in before we go to that uh again just coming to the economy and the defense uh how they how the two stack up again I want to reme I want us all to remember that we are talking about two Pakistans so even though the economy of Pakistan is going down it's a zero sum game there so the all the things that are who's losing out is the putrative state and the Pakistani people it's not changing the it's not having that much impact on the Pakistani military jihadi complex they are still buying things not from US then they are buying it from China or others right so they even if you see the latest defense expenditure numbers there haven't been years where the defense expenditure is going down even though the economy might be going down right so they are still extracting what they can uh so in that sense the asymmet symmetry between India and Pakistan's military balance will not be as much as their economy shows. You know the number might show that you know we are doing great on the economic side. They might not but the military comparison if you see it might the difference might not be that stark. I want to ask another possibly knife question at this point that it seems to me that if you there's an element of game theory to this in the sense that the incentives of the military jihadi complex will be to have occasional and even frequent skirmishes with India so they can justify uh their dominance in Pakistan but they would never actually want war or they would never actually want the cost to be too high because that would be a disaster for them you know to actually lose a war would you know hurt them severely perhaps take them out of existence the MJC that is obviously not Pakistan and uh you know equally if there are heavy damages that will affect the kind of public support that you have so what they would ideally want is that once in a while they attack India India retaliates but it ends with a narrative of oh we drove the Indians out like shahidi doing that you know that motorcycle ride saying Pakistan won and that's exactly as far as they want to take it but it seems to me that the Indians by uh the Indian side by uh imposing greater costs this time have told them that it ain't necessarily so that we are willing to escalate to beyond the point which you're comfortable with and therefore it should make them rethink their fundamental framework of the conflict itself. Uh is is that broadly accurate? Yeah, I think that is uh true. So the MJC would want and that's why so many things have kept happening. That's why they invented subconventional warfare in the subcontinent. So that's their strategy to always have terrorists on tap and do things as they want to uh and uh always keep poking India right so that was their stance but obviously they don't want it to go beyond a particular uh threshold and that's why they also bringing the nuclear angle in right so they fear that they know India has somewhat more conventional power so to stop that from going beyond a point They always say that you know we have some tactical nuclear weapons we can bring that into play and all those stories are told in order to for them to always be in this subconventional warfare zone where they can they can keep doing the stuff and India doesn't have much options uh on its side. uh so that's true I think their aim is to keep uh doing some things which keeps them in relevance always they project themselves as the uh you know the uh defenders of Pakistan's ideology and the border you know territorial and ideological frontiers that's think Christine fair's uh phrase so that's what the military wants to be doing uh and for that uh having a hostile India relationship works out quite well. Let's let's talk about uh Belgam and uh you know why it happened in the first place which is like deeply confusing and I think we are still in a little bit of um fog over that and uh you know one theory which was doing the rounds was that there was an attack in Baluchasan before this where 26 people were killed and they were all male no women were killed. So similarly in Pelgam 26 people were killed and they made it a point to kill only males and therefore the theory is that this is retaliation that either we made Baluchasan happen or they think we made Baluchasan happen and if the latter is the case that we didn't actually you know cause the attacks in Baluchasan but they think that we do then I see two different narrative dilemmas at play here. One is Pakistan's narrative dilemma that once they internally ascribe it to India because there the official public line is that all the terrorism here is fermented by India. So once they do that then they have to be seen to respond to uh the Baluchasan attack and then equally that creates India's narrative dilemma that once Pakistan does something like Pahelgam even though they meant it as a retaliation to our alleged action in Baluchasan and they are not taking it forward we have to retaliate because obviously we can't um uh you know allow such an attack to pass and therefore it almost feels like a trap which is why I asked earlier that is the MJC you know a sort of a monol Because that brings in another angle that maybe it is not the MJC which is making the attack happen but these guys but if it is the MJC making these attacks happen because of something we can't control in Baluchasan that complicates the whole matter. So how much do you ascribe to this theory that it was a retaliation to Baluchistan? How much do we do we actually have the capability and the competence to do attacks over there? I thought the rational thing for India really would be to step back completely and say hey we ain't fermenting trouble anywhere you guys are not worth our while we'll just focus on our own economy and our own growth. Um so what's really happening here and whether or not there is any truth to this angle why pahelgam why did they do this and you know the modus operandi of you ask for a person's religion and you say okay take a message to Modi and then you get exactly 26 people and you kill only men so what can you tell me about you know whatever sense you have gathered into why the attack happened right so Amit let's discuss the Baloasan part first and again we are in the realm of guess work. No one really knows what's there. But the sense that I have is anything that happens in Pakistan, they will attribute it to the RNAW because it works for the MJC, right? Again, how does it survive having control over the economy and having giving speeches to parliamentarians about what parliamentarians should be doing if not for the fact that there is this threat of India and the looming threat India will occupy us. So it's it really works in that and uh RNA and there also there's also mirroring going on here. Okay. Because on the Pakistani side the uh the agency which is responsible for doing intelligence ops is the ISI which is a part of the Pakistani army. So there are leftand generals and major generals and the entire army uh hierarchy within the ISI. They also have their equivalent military intelligence and uh other things but they are not the most important ones. Their core intelligence outfit which does all this is the ISI which is an part of the Pakistani army. Now you so for them doing terrorist operations etc is what they do like you know that's what they have been doing. So when something happens within Pakistan they always try to see and even people there I think see that India is also capable of doing exactly that because you know that's how it is structured but India's intelligence agency is structured very differently there are career bureaucrats here you know and uh they I'm sure they must be having gathering intelligence they must be having sources they must be having some operations uh across the world but it is not the type of thing that the ISI does, right? So, uh the fact that how people within the Pakistani army have trained le and they fight alongside them, that kind of thing. Do you expect career bureaucrats in India to do like I mean uh this is just probably people seeing Salman Khan movies and Tiger uh thinking that right so for us in in the Indian setting I'm sure it would be foolish of India if India is not listening to what's happening in Balojasthan and I'm sure we are not making that mistake. So it's always useful to keep a eye keep your eyes and ears on the ground to at least listen to what is happening uh to your adversary. I'm sure every intelligence agency worth its salt must be at least listening uh doing that. But for the Pakistani army to claim that such a big attack you know which has killed uh civilians and in a train and the kind of thing that was done to attribute that to India is just I only see mirroring there and nothing else. there's uh absolutely no proof has been presented or no proof has uh even been thought of that how does this link if you connect all these elements so I think it's um it's just a mirroring at work now uh when you come to pahelam so this was about the balutasan part even though India might not have had anything to do with it uh we've thought about how it is important for the MJC to believe and to tell its people that it was done by them, right? Because imagine this is a egg on face for the Pakistani army, right? They are in control of everything. And here there is uh in Balojasthan in a part of their own territory where uh people have been killed in broad daylight. You know this is really this was terrorism what happened in uh Balotistasan. There was no other word for it. So in that sense they had to prove that they have tried to say that uh India is involved etc. And I'm sure it's not just this event many of these terror plants are many people are operating they must be sending people to Kashmir etc. And when the opportunity strikes they uh attack right so there will be many projects must be cooking at various points of time. So they were trying to see an opportunity and I think what they did in Bahelam shows it was not just about killing men and 26 men. It was about killing Hindus and people. So that was very clearly a message that they wanted to send is that yeah this we are doing against uh against the people in power against Hindus uh and this is what needs to be done. In fact, if you see the Pakistan army also took that line later when they attacked uh after May 7, they attacked Gurudaras and others and they maintained that all of this were flag false flag operations by Indians. So, India is itself doing these in fact pelgam attack was also done by Indians because they want to this is how they see Muslims and uh this is how they want to get back at JNK and things like that you know. So it's a very diabolical thing but for from their point of thing I think there is internal consistency when they are thinking from that point of view that India is so broken in from uh uh this religious point of view that they actually believe that Indians can do this you know that's my reading of this situation. Can I just jump in here a bit on this uh question of Baloistan? uh so let's you know we don't have to assume goodwill on India's part so let's assume uh India's perfectly capable capable and willing to support Baluch insurgents there are still some really big constraints for India that don't exist for Pakistan uh number one is we don't have contiguous territory with Baluchasthan and and that's the biggest uh infrastructure advantage that you have right because uh it means you can uh train people you can indoctrinate people uh and you eventually have staging post from which you can infiltrate them back across into Indian territory. Uh none of that exists um in the case of Balojasthan. So uh you know at the most what can India do? Perhaps uh supply money. Now even that is complicated because India does not in any way want to be seen to be funding terrorism. In in fact India spends so much diplomatic capital and trying to isolate Pakistan over this and uh uh you know if you are trying to move money abroad uh through the international financial system you might get into the uh uh purview of Interpol FATF and all of that. So why would India want that grief? So I mean my point is you don't have to believe in goodwill from India. You just have to think about the natural constraints India have has to be skeptical about this claim. Yeah I'm not even talking about goodwill. I'm taking we don't have that capability to do those uh things there and and even from a you know realist point of view if India were to support an insurgency within Pakistan it would be the Pashtun insurgency not the Balojasthan insurgency. Balojasthan insurgency has been tried many times and it many times it has failed and uh now if you see I mean the northern part of Balojasthan qua on onwards is a pashon area it's not balo area anyways so uh unfortunately the balois are not a match for the Pakistani army they can do things but Pakistan army will still have control so if even if I were to think of a very realist point of view India would be supporting the things in uh the pashon areas and especially because uh there is now Taliban which also has I mean before that also there Afghan Pakistan relationships have always been uh on the tent hooks whether it is Taliban or before that uh when it was uh the Islamic Republic of Pakistan Afghanistan so that uh uh uh applies uh and so I think we don't have capability that was my first point and second even if we were to 10x our capability, India would probably do things on the Afghan park border, not in Balojasthan. Wonderful. So, you know, in in one sentence, you've basically said two things. One is that we're incompetent and two is but we are the good guys. So, incompetence with no malice. Uh, no, I'm kidding. So, tell me about, you know, after the attacks happen, you know, what are the options on the table? Like, what must the decision makers in government have gone through at that moment? because I can see uh sort of two simultaneous imperatives at play. One is the imperative of India as a state to respond to what has just happened. Uh and the other is the political imperative to be seen to do something and to be seen to take strong action. Uh because u that's what the Twitter crowds are paying for. So how does one balance these two and when it does and in a sense they go in the same direction because even the state would be thinking that okay we got to do something but then the question is what and is it because you know even Pakistan doesn't want to escalate is um you know your sight of action as it were or the scope is it predicated on it being a kind of theater and you know that from the start or are you actually wargaming everything that could possibly happen including a possible escalation and war. What's the thinking in the decision-m circles that then goes on within both the government itself and also within the military which has to get itself into in the state of readiness both in terms of attack and defense. So the way I I see it is broadly when such a thing happens three options are possible. One is strategic restraint. So you say that you know we what we did after uh uh 2611 for example right said yeah this was wrong uh etc but we will not do anything directly against the Pakistani military we'll let uh the world notice what Pakistan is really is and we'll move on so that's one option that probably would have been uh discussed the second option would be for India to wage its equivalent subconventional warfare are against Pakistan as well. Uh which I have said we probably don't have the uh at least the mindset or the capability to do the kind of things Pakistan does on the terrorism front. So uh we are not kitted out to do those kinds of things. So again and it will take time etc. So forget about that. So the third option would be to actually then respond you know so uh send a strategic signaling uh message uh which imposes some costs on Pakistan and for that the trend had already been set like we said that was see earlier there was this idea that when such a terrorist attack happens there first Pakistan will ask for proof then we will send some proof some dossier would be sent then the Pakistan will say that oh we didn't do anything these were not involved we did our investigation we didn't fi find anyone guilty so it would so we've done many of these cycles before so the thing that would be in this government's mindset was that we will not do these kinds of things going ahead we've tried this and failed so if such a thing happens we will respond now the question was what would the response be now when this happened in on April 2020 Uh second the idea was the Indian government has to respond and remember they specifically killed Hindus and they said go and tell Modi about it right. So this is like it is important from an Indian state point of view and it is also important for the political party in power to send a message. So both of these sort of align and in fact 22nd April to 7th May took quite some time right. So there was uh I'm sure these conversations would be going on that what should our response be what kind of uh response uh should be sent and in between that there was one uh it was done very you know obviously in the public eye uh that the PM meets uh the chief of the armed forces and then he says that we have given you full operational freedom to respond and a few days after that the Indian response takes place. So I think it was the uh strategy was that we will not do something surreptitiously. We will uh we we have told that this is not acceptable. The consistent signaling was one this was terrorism. Pakistan is responsible. We are not going to give you any proof. Our response will be multi-dommain. Uh so it was the Indust water treaty was put in obeyance and a lot of the things which were non-kinetic also happened. uh that was the first thing and after that some people in India thought okay this is our response we should not do much but if you look at essentially what I told was an alignment of it hurt the Indian state it also directly hurt the political formation in power so they had to respond uh in uh that sense so uh and the template also had been said that post Uri also we had done something uh we had also done something after Patanote and the Bala good strikes and this was a notch higher in terms of what had happened right tourists being uh killed in this way. So in that sense a military response was what uh seemed uh something that would happen. In fact before this happened we had written that it it a kinetic response is likely uh but not imminent is what I had written but it happened uh a few days later 5 6 days. Why did you think it was not imminent like likely but not imminent? Because at that point of time the uh signaling was that uh we reserve the right to respond. We have given operational freedom to respond but we will attack at a time uh and manner of our choosing. Right? So in that sense and also already 11 12 days had passed by that time. Uh so I think the Balakot strikes was 12 days after the attack in India. So in that sense the time had also passed. So uh that's why I felt that it would happen in but it would take some time. Yeah, I was even more skeptical than pane. I actually thought it would take longer for an Indian strike. Uh so yeah. Um Oh, we had a bet which I have won. Yes, I I actually owe you a full 1,000 rupees. Yeah. Yes, I did say that India would respond which Adita didn't agree. So I I'll just tell you why I think uh that so uh after uh Balakot I mean you definitely had reason to believe India had achieved some degree of deterrence or at least imposition of higher costs on Pakistan and it was clear where what sort of conventional option would be feasible for India where I was more skeptical was whether uh a government would consider it worth its while uh because you know there's because of the risks involved and you And you know, politicians don't necessarily like those risks uh when you're dealing with an external uh adversary. Uh so I thought that you know, if if the government believed it could manage this politically, uh it would seek not to conduct a a conventional response. But but I was wrong on that. And uh the conventional response that was tailored to it was actually designed to get around a sort of red lines that Pakistan had put in place. So way back in January 2002, Khaled Kiddwai who was the head of uh Pakistan's strategic uh plans division which uh controls its nuclear forces. Uh this you know had basically spoken to a couple of Italian physicists about Pakistan's red line. This is a little bizarre that he chose this outlet but that's what he did and this was uh for context. This was right after the attack on India's parliament and India's uh mobilization operation parakum. Uh and he laid out four uh criteria. Two of them are you know that come later are the economic strangling of Pakistan and political destabilization. I think in the last 20 years we've seen Pakistan is pretty good at doing those things itself. But the the first two uh I think the ones that really he really cared about are you know that India uh conquers or holds controls some portion of Pakistan's territory or that uh India destroys uh a large portion of Pakistan's military forces and both both of those are really about conventional action and uh the Pakistani uh strategy as Pride outlined was always about threatening some kind of nuclear escalation using tactical or battlefield nuclear weapons and the idea of that sort of weapon is you you both achieve a political objective and a military objective. The military objective is for example you hit an armored column you know uh because of heat blast radiation you know that that armored thrust is blunted and then there's the political signal which is both intended for India and for outside uh audiences so for India it is to say look we've now entered the nuclear domain and you really want to continue with this and the Pakistani belief was that once such a strike happened India would have no good options and would basically have to call it off the the other reason they believed that is that as soon as that strike happened the rest of the world would swoop open and uh and you know would catalyze that that intervention and uh the attacks that India conducted um starting on dawn or you know on May 7th are really designed to get around that. So you are uh you you are trying to hit specific terrorist targets um you are not destroying Pakistani forces. you are um uh hitting the people you believe are responsible for this and other attacks and you are constantly saying you you plan to manage escalation um as as a consequence of this. So I think it it was it was designed around that. It brought risks with it of course because India didn't get to suppress Pakistani air defenses u that was the case in 2019 as well. But uh uh you know that that's a potentially feasible way uh to manage this politically. Uh when I say politically I mean international politics as well uh to be clear. So you know while the government might say might say um you know the armed forces have been given a free hand they've typically been given a very narrow band in which they can operate. So they have that operational freedom but it's but there are very specific political constraints around it. So give me a sense of how the attacks actually unfolded. You've written a lovely piece in times of India where you talk about kind of the three phases of it. on May 7th uh uh you know the IF hit nine sites and they were targeting terrorist outfits and the idea was you'll minimize civilian casualties you've detailed the kind of weapons and munitions that were used the next day India retaliated against nighttime Pakistan attacks and um they also sought out an air defense site in Lahore and successfully struck it and then on the 10th the potent action where they attacked 10 Pakistan air bases and they might have you know debuted Brahmo supersonic strike missiles out there. So I'm I'm curious about knowing about each of these and what they indicate about our strength and you know what we learned from them and obviously you you have another great piece in money control about uh our fantastic air defense system all of which was a complete til for me and I'll ask you about that uh later as well but just focusing on the attacks that we carried out you know tell me about how they unfolded what were the imperatives in each of them what did we learn about uh the weaponry and the equipment we were using in each of them because a lot of it was in the realm of the unknown even for us in the sense that we didn't know how it would actually play out in the field of combat. Yeah, absolutely. In fact, I you know, a lot of this this uncertainty wasn't just for us, it was for the as well. Um so uh um to the best of my knowledge, the two munitions used um uh in the first strikes and the scalp and the hammer haven't been used in combat yet. This this is probably their combat debut. So you know this is something that the whole world is going to be paying attention to and you know these are uh designed uh so I mean I think a big reason India chose them is they have relatively compact warheads. You basically don't want to create all that big a blast in in what is essentially an urban area. So I think that worked out well. The Pakistanis have claimed they've they down multiple Indian jets. Uh the Indian side hasn't said anything about this. Uh though they've been very open about saying look there might be combat losses. That's just a normal part of this sort of thing. So we'll probably learn about that in the coming days. So, so that that was day one. Um, and what happened after that on day two was that India was actually sub subject to a bunch of drone incursions as well as what seemed to have been missile uh missile attacks uh which were intercepted. And so India responded to that by uh attacking some of uh Pakistan's air defenses u and uh we know of at least three sites. One in Lahore, there seems to been something outside Karachi and also in Rahul Pindi. But it seems something seems to have exploded outside a cricket stadium. It's all fog of war. So we'll learn about these things I'm sure in the coming weeks and months. Um but uh it it is fairly clear that in Lahour at least uh India was able to damage or destroy a a significant air defense system. Uh what's really interesting about uh for example the Lahore and Karachi attacks is that India seems to have used something called the Harrap which is a Israeli loitering munition. Uh and you know this this sort of use of this kind of instrument is is new for India as well. Uh and uh so it it was it was interesting to see how this loitering munition which actually you know once you let it go it uh and tell it what to do it sort of plans its mission itself it it it responds to the sit you know the situation the battlefield environment and then it finds its target and hits it. That's uh it's it's it's quite extraordinary that India uh was confident enough to use that kind of munition. And I I will say uh uh you know uh the Pakistanis apparently did manage to intercept several of these uh so you know that's that's that that says something about their competence right so Pakistan is not a pushover by any um stretch of imagination and on day three I think that was absolutely the most most significant strikes again I think India was uh careful that it didn't want to create a lot of casualties uh once blood is spilled you know things get way more complicated but you do want to hit hardware because that's definitely what the military brass care about. Uh so, you know, I've heard, you know, we mentioned 10, but there may have been more. There may have been 13 different strikes. Um so, these seem to have been airfields, uh radar installations. So, radars again, uh you know, these are fixed uh land-based radars. So, you want to knock out a lot of Pakistan's ability to build a sight picture of the airspace, both its own airspace as well as India's airspace. And uh you also want to hit runways. Now uh in both sides u you know uh so uh you want to hit a runway because uh uh you know it it affects the tempo of operations when you hit runways it's harder for planes to land and take off uh you know and planes need all sorts of refueling maintenance facilities and al and all which are quite specific to those airfields I think the idea from India was to tell the Pakistanis we have the potential to severely disrupt your the tempo of your air operations as well as degrade your air defenses you you know by itself it wasn't a large scale strike but it was an audacious strike from India and um I think that was really what catalyzed uh foreign intervention after that whether or not India wanted it uh the following day a few hours later Pakistan claimed to have struck three airfields in Punjab uh but so far satellite imagery doesn't seem to bear out any significant damage at any of them so uh it this seems to be mostly a story of India striking sites in Pakistan um though also potentially Pakistan managing to uh engage at least maybe two Indian jets but that's not clear yet. So yeah that's that's the story of of the attacks. uh these are unprecedented uh in uh really 71 uh we haven't seen anything like this and even in 71 you know it's really hard to go and hit chakla for example but India seems to have done that quite successfully and uh you know this naturally by itself uh you know you're talking about escalation with prane this would definitely be discussed very uh you know uh in great detail in the NSC in the decision-m process with members of the armed forces involved and uh you know Because the the the really the questions there are, you know, uh not not necessarily about deliberate escalation uh but also about inadvertent and accidental escalation. Accidental escalation is less of a problem. It's, you know, when somebody launches something by mistake or something, it's not not what you intend. Inadvertent escalation is a little more complicated because uh it's it's it's basically about unintended consequences uh from something like this. You misjudge an opponent's red line or you hit something that you didn't intend to hit. um and that you know potentially uh creates escalation. So while that risk may be small it's uh it's irreducible beyond a point and that's something that needs to be constantly managed by both sides. Uh so yeah that's really the story of uh the Indian strikes and I think that's the biggest story uh from from this uh whole episode. So uh I thought I was trying to look at the narrative aspects of this uh myth when this was going on like what is happening what are the stories people telling. So if you look at that right like I said before May 7th uh already there was a signaling from the Indian side that something will happen on the military side that's why this operational freedom thing has happened and remember at this time both sides want to deescalate beyond a point yeah MJC as you would already mentioned doesn't want to let it go beyond a point of time they can't manage it and India also doesn't want to get embroiled in the whole Pakistan uh business that it will only pull it down rather than take it anywhere. Right? So it was clear from the outside you want to escalate but then you want to also deescalate but things don't work out the way they want to. Right? So first when they do this May 7 strikes they very intentionally have said some strikes will happen because operational freedom etc. But they make it a point to strike only the terrorist facilities. Right? So that is one point. So it was significant for three reasons. one that India struck the well-known terrorist targets in Pakistan's heartland. So even though Balakot is in Kyber Bakuno, it was really close to the uh to the Pakistan occupied Jammu and Kashmir, you know. So it's just across the border. It is not core Pakistan. This time the signal was that we will target Punjab, right? And Muritk is just in near Lahore. So we'll can even strike there. That was one signal and we'll strike only the terror camp. So the expectation was at least from the Indian side that the Pakistani army would understand that this was probably something happening on the terrorist side and they will also carry some strikes of their own but they'll largely be symbolic. So that was probably the calculation. The second reason why these strikes were uh different and significant were one it actually avoided any kind of surprise. you know the mode and timing was known to the Pakistanis that there will be some attack. Uh the it was signaled that there will be uh some attack. So in that sense I think there were risks involved right because uh you know you're attacking an adversary when the adversary is already ready. Uh they know and this area on the India Pakistan border the international border is heavily fortified. There are air defenses everywhere. So it's very difficult for India to do an operation without Pakistan not knowing. So having said that India did in that intentionally I think because it is a sort of a commitment device right even in that you can you are willing to respond in full view knowing the risks because you're trying to indicate that you know I'm willing to uh do crazy things because uh that is the point right that I'm not going to be uh fearful of the fact that you will attack and that's why we will uh respond. So that was like a commitment device that yeah things are uh risky but we'll still take that risks uh risk and we are willing to absorb some uh hits to us as long as we can attack the terrorist uh camp. So that was the second reason and the third one was also it was proportionate. It tried to contain escalation it uh and it all the things were done from India's airspace. So there was not the kind of things that happened last time and these were uh using air-to-surface missiles. Surfaceto-surface missiles are seen more escalatory. That would have been an option which has considered also right that why don't we send surfaceto-surface missile but they have a risk associated that people can confuse them for a nuclear uh attack and that can you you know escalate further. So we took a risky option in full public view uh and but it was meant to uh only target terrorist camp with the aim that probably this will not escalate. Okay. So this is what happens. Uh and when this happens, Pakistan had to seek some explanation for the failure of its own air defenses, right? Like how the hell did this happen in Murit K and Bahavalur and things like that. So it first uh sought to project that all these targets were not on terrorist camps but it were on Pakistani civilian sites. So that was one narrative that they tried to push. Uh and also they actually claimed that they hit Indian aircraft. Now I think based on Indian stance it seems that they have hit some aircraft. What is the nature of it? We don't know but it seems that they have hit that. So at this point I thought actually there could have been a chance for deescalation because both the sides could have declared we have won and go home right they could have said that in fact in on the first day there were also some uh images of wreckage found on the Indian side etc. Right? So they could have I mean no side will say that yes this happened immediately right. So they could have said that you know we've struck them India did this we've struck them and India could have said that they have targeted the Pakistani milit uh the terrorist camps. So now we can call but that's not how it turned out right. So next day Pakistan ups the ante. So then it attacks several locations in India using drones and missiles you know and some of these attacks are actually targeting civilians and that's when all this things happen when they try to attack Gurudara and they attack Punch and many areas and specifically still while still saying that we are not doing this. So and even during this time the DGISPR didn't say that we have already responded there is an retaliatory operation ongoing. They were still saying this is some false flag operation that Indians are doing. So that was their narrative. They took it too far. I mean it became really unbelievable for anyone in the world but they still tried to run that story. Uh and they still said we still reserve the right to respond. We'll do that at some point of time. So, so now with this new round of attacks, drones and missiles starting, it became important for India to respond and because these were drones and missiles launched by the Pakistani uh military, then the response came that we will target their uh military and remember if we take that story that Pakistan did take some of uh the Indian aircraft down, it means that Indian aircraft were in Indian airspace and they were still struck by uh some missiles coming from the Pakistani end which means this is sort of an escalation right they have uh so India had to respond and that's when they responded by attacking on the military uh targets right so then on 8th May there were targets on so again the aim was to take down their air power because air power was used to respond on the Indian side so that's why air defense radars at many places uh and the air defense system at Lahore which was taken down so by the 8th May actually Pakistan's narrative had actually weakened and if they would have closed this on 7th May they would have been in a happier position I think but they just took it too far away you know so they thought by this time 8th May because India had also responded and air defense in Lahour is out all the videos are already floating in Pakistani media itself uh so I think their narrative started weakening then another thing that weakened their narrative was those the photos of this US designated terrorists leading the funeral function and Pakistani military officials standing behind like I mean what a joke right so that was also happening that further reduced their credibility uh uh so in that sense it's claims that they have taken down Indian jets were not enough to explain the failure uh in defending uh against Indian attacks you know so they wanted to do something more and that's why they escalated even further uh they had a even larger drone attack uh and missiles uh even aircraft were used not in Indian territory but they did uh use that so at that point of time India responded by hitting more military installations uh through drones and missiles right so by 10th morning it seemed that Pakistan's position was weakening uh even though its military took the position that you know we will respond we will not deescalate this is India which is escalating uh we also know that India had stuck many more military targets in Pakistan with ease. Pakistan had not been able to do the same right on the Indian side. They were still going on on that 3 days old story that you know we've taken their Rafael down and that's why we have won the war etc. At this point is when Pakistan finally re uh names their retaliation. So that's when they come up with an Arabic name and they say that this is what we will now be responding with uh to uh India's uh uh actions and uh when they did that it they increased the frequency of attacks uh across the entire IB and LOC and India in fact formally acknowledged that limited damage was done to some equipment and personnel at Indian air force stations Udhampur Patan code, Adam and BJ. So even the Indian side again wanted to deescalate at this point that we have also suffered some damage but we also so that was also an opportunity for some deescalation to happen. So just a few hours after Pakistan actually decides its ret for retaliation formally is actually when it peters down right. So then that's when the US secretary of state is speaking to uh various actors including directly to Aimir. So he's going out of protocol there. He's even he understands that you should talk to the MJC. No point in talking to the Shabba Sharif and the putitive state. They don't have anything under control. So he directly talks to that they have also uh talked to the Indian side. So I I think as I said both sides wanted to deescalate there would have been messages sent that you know let us call it off here. Uh the US became a mode probably to at least start those talks and by evening of 10th May uh Trump in his famous truth social post had already declared it as some ceasefire. Right. So and then India and Pakistan government both confirmed the development. So uh this is how sort of it played out. I think in the first day Pakistan had a stronger narrative if they wanted to call it off but after that things just became worse for them and then they had to deescalate out of compulsion rather than being able to uh declare victory uh and then uh climbed up. I'll commit the apparently bizarre act here of quoting someone from the world of business. Brian Armstrong of Coinbase once said that action produces information. And I love this pithy saying because it's actually a call to a bias for action which I keep recommending that you do things and you that gives you information and you find out about things. But it seems that even during uh you know this conflict action produced a lot of information in the sense that there was a lot of stuff we didn't know about our military capabilities and about theirs. One aspect of that as uh you know you spoke about Adity obviously was what we learned through the attack. So many of our systems were actually kind of debuting and the fact that we could uh you know actually do a direct strike on Murke which is right next to Lahore therefore there thereby showing that if you want we can strike Lahore and all of this was useful but equally the air defense system was useful because uh I think this must be for the first time that we had large scale drone attacks as we did this time and in your piece for money control you wrote and I'll quote you India's multi-layered air defense system has successfully repulsed scores of Pakistani aerial attacks over three successive nights by acquiring advanced systems and simultaneously producing at scale domestically. India has steadily built air defenses that can absorb and inflict punishing attrition over prolonged combat. It has also focused on protecting key targets. For example, for instance, India has ambitions of covering Delhi and Mumbai with a limited missile defense system shield that can intercept accidental or rogue launches of some nuclear capable ballistic missiles. Stop quote. And this is incredibly heartening because what you would imagine is fine, we might be acquiring stuff and we might be building our own stuff. How good are they? How much do we uh you know have we actually got things under control and meanwhile Pakistan is being supplied by China and a lot of that must be state-of-the-art stuff and what do we do against drone warfares? You've also in your piece spoken about the different kind of drones about the challenges that a missile defense system has of detection, identification, engagement. It seems deeply complex you know when it begins. No, the people on either side may not have known that uh will India withstand those attacks or will it completely crumble and will it be a disaster? And it turns out that it was in that sense a massive victory for us that it really worked. It worked well and that action gave us uh a lot of heartening information and it gave them a lot of information as well about their shortcomings and uh you know what they should do next time. So give me a little sense of uh you know all of this. Sure. Uh you know uh you're absolutely right. It's it's this action that's actually produced information uh because you don't really know how good these things are until they they are used in combat. We don't want to see combat but that's that's when you actually learn about these things. So for example I you know we heard a lot of good things about the Akash missile but it seems to have been used more than once um during this conflict and it seems to have equated itself well. So you know there we have information but yes uh you know stepping back I think what we saw was uh India really dealing with a very complicated air defense environment and you know uh if you look back historically this is you know there's always been this uh push and pull between those who attack and those who defend right so uh the the British inbent radar that technology proliferates uh during the second world war we all know that story and then you have uh later you have jet aircraft and so jet aircraft uh you necess necessitate the development of surfaceto-air missiles of guidance and all that. Then you have anti-radiation missiles which actually designed to attack radars. So you know and uh that is layered with electronic warfare and all that that becomes complicated. What we're seeing of late is uh the addition not just of more sophisticated electronic warfare but also of of drones of various kinds uh which can basically saturate an air defense environment and you know drones can be used for a lot of things. They can, yes, of course, you can use them to do attacks, you know, uh, by themselves because they're small, they're hard to detect, they can go under the radar. Uh, but they can also go and saturate and, uh, confuse uh, air defenses, right? And that's what the Pakistanis seem to have been doing, trying to confuse it, trying to probe it, look for weaknesses, see what, you know, trying to get a pattern of how the Indians respond to this uh, in order to be able to launch other kinds of attacks. And you know in the future we might see these being used for other purposes uh directly jamming Indian radars attacking Indian uh radars uh so that other you know uh other attack vectors you know more capable missiles and so on are then used after after those defenses have been weakened and so India was actually dealing with this really complicated environment. uh another thing that India had developed in the last few years is a so-called uh you know a counter UAS system which is you know really uh cooperated by the Indian army and uh again this is a fairly naent stage and we weren't always sure how effective this is UAS simply means unmanned aerial systems that's just a way of saying drones little drones um and but I think the army ended up getting a little bit of practice both from insurgents use of drones as well as uh smugglers across the border and uh LOC so you Ironically, the Pakistanis I think seem to have given them a little bit of practice with handling this and they were from what what what's happened it would seem that the army was actually able to through its counter UA system tackle a lot of this. Now this is probably some of this is jamming because these are commercial drones that are you know have a communication link back to the operators you can jam them. Uh and another instrument that they seem to have used is is the L70 before's uh anti-aircraft gun. This is a really old anti-aircraft gun uh dating back to our dad's and mom's time, but it's been upgraded, you know, with this sort of it has a proximity fuse. It has an electrooptical tracker that can track these drones. So, basically, it's been seems seems to have been really effective in taking down a lot of these small commercial uh drones. Uh at the larger scale, uh you know, Pakistan seems to have launched two sets of attacks. one on day one on on on the second night on the night of May 8th 9th um May 7th 8th excuse me and uh that seems to have again we we don't have details about what missiles were used so it may have been missiles or long-range rockets but those again seem to have been intercepted so what seems to have happened is that the Indian air defenses basically took care of the initial drone incursions or probes and then were perfectly uh tuned uh to intercept u missiles so really there was no disruption And then you had the more serious attack on on the last day uh where at least one thing we've heard about is a a Fata 2 uh which is a sort of short-range uh ballistic missile. It's it's fired at a flat trajectory so it doesn't doesn't go around you know the usual uh parabolic trajectory that you imagine a ballistic missile going and it's it's a conventional missile. There's no ambiguity about that and that again seems to have been intercepted pro probably by a barate missile. Now there's other details that we hear about possible use of an S400 missile and others. uh let's wait for more details to come out because it's it's all it's it's it's a bit foggy but I think we can come to the conclusion that this air defense has in this particular context held up very well and u I think this is a combination of both having a few advanced systems to take care of really complicated threats as well as you know just having for example lots of Akash missiles and and you know we're likely to do more of this MR sams the barak 8 all of this which we produce in India you know The idea is to produce these missiles in large numbers because uh you want to be able to have a lots of coverage and b uh be able to really take down multiple incursions because you expect in the future UAVs, U cabavs are going to be coming in large numbers, attractable sort of munitions and and you want to be able to take them all down. So yeah, that that's that's where it stands. I I you know, I think we can be happy about it, but uh let's be careful because uh a the Pakistanis are going to learn. they're not going to make the same mistakes the next time. And B, uh, we have a much bigger challenge in China and, uh, it's going to be a much more capable adversary. Electronic warfare is going to be much more advanced than Pakistan's and it's going to be able to use more sophisticated attack vectors. So, uh, you know, there's a lot more work that needs to be done. You you had mentioned the ballistic missile defense shield. So you know this is still you know there are two capable missiles for this but this is still a work in progress and this functions a little different from different differently from normal air defenses because this is ultimately about nuclear weapons and nuclear strategy. So uh you India is not trying to build a big shield against nuclear weapons that's not how it works. uh you India has this no first use pledge um and it's uh what it uh tells its adversaries is that there will be a short retaliation if there is a first strike. So uh you know this is not meant to get into nuclear war fighting but it is meant to stop an accidental or rogue launch uh because let's say for example there's an accidental launch which is not something that's completely implausible. So if there is an accidental launch if you are able to defend it uh if you're able to sorry intercept it you have managed to diffuse that crisis at that moment right after that the two sides can talk to talk to each other and the hotlines can diffuse it but if you can't stop that missile and it comes and hits you uh you know what happens after that right so it's it's it's really like like an insurance policy and it's it's meant to be that it's meant to provide you some insurance in case something really goes But it's not about, you know, getting into a getting into nuclear warfight. Let's take a quick digression. Uh you said accidental launches like that are plausible. Uh explain how because it seems to me to be something that would be incredibly rare because there would be so many layers of decision making and safety built into actually launching a nuclear missile. Yeah, there are. So there's uh personal personnel reliability then there are different levels of access that are given. But for example in a crisis uh sometimes authority may be delegated that that that's always a possibility though both sides would actually be very careful about that. Uh but you know things can go wrong technically now we don't know what details the details of Pakistani's launch protocols but uh you know things can can go wrong um so um I don't remember when but fairly recently uh an Indian air force jet did accidentally launch a bramos missile into Pakistan. you know promoses are not nuclear missiles and it's just a promos missile so there's a lot more delegation but I think that's illustrative enough of the risks involved here so we don't want that that sort of thing to happen when we uh met yesterday and by by the way for the sake of the listeners pane prane was over in Punea and a bunch of us made a day trip and had a uh good time in Pune and prane you mentioned to me while we were there that u u this was a strategic victory but a tactical defeat for India So um explain those explain both of those. Yeah. So I after we spoke I added one more layer to it. So I think there is three levels right. So there is tactical, operational and strategic. So tactical level focuses on you know winning battles, individual battles etc. uh individual engagements which happen. Operational level focuses on winning campaigns right which links the battles to broader objective. And strategic level is finally are you able to achieve your national objective itself right whatever it is. So you can think of these three levels which come uh into force during any of these uh standoffs. So uh now if you break these three on the tactical side after the first day as I said if Pakistan's uh claims of having shot down some Indian jets are true if they are then it is a tactical win for them as well you know and India already has a tactical win because it had hit the sides which it it wanted to do right so in that sense uh tactical tactically you can say both of them would have won on the first day things changed after that right 8th May 9th May I think India had more strikes than Pakistan had on the operational side like linking the battle to achieving broader objectives that's where India was definitely more successful than Pakistan right there is no question about that India was able to uh achieve the things that it wanted to and send the signal that it wanted to that all of Pakistan is vulnerable if it uh if it is going to sponsor terrorism into India. So that kind of messaging was very important and so operationally sort of it it did the but on the strategic side again the things are ambiguous now given that will this lead to lesser uh terrorism or not like that we'll only know later. So in the strategic things you can't say someone won or lost because it is actually an infinite game. There are every side will always have uh an option. Uh they will as gentleman always says Pakistan will always have the free will. So if they want to decide that they want to uh keep doing these things they will still have that option even if their economy goes uh to the dumps. Right? So they are they have that capability to do that. So if you look at it from that lens uh I think strategically we will come to know in months or years from now whether this worked or not but I would say we have a slight gain I wouldn't say win but we have a strategic gain rather uh because again we signal that any of these uh attacks will incur high costs on Pakistan. Pakistan also had that uh made the mistake of you know their military folks again standing shoulderto-shoulder with the terrorists. So again that sort of got exposed. So that's how I would sort of put it tactically it was first day probably Pakistan had the upper hand. Second day onwards they uh lost it. Operationally India had the better hand. Uh and strategically we have a slight gain uh but not so much as a victory. Yeah, if I could add to that, I think the strategic gains u are are still uncertain. We we might have something now because we've associated higher costs with this sort of operation and we've struck deep inside Pakistan. But uh there's a few things. So um one is what might be if you put on your public policy hat and think about unintended consequences. U if you're Pakistan and you want to respond to this, what are the things you might do? So if you say, well, okay, 26 civilians is a threshold. what happens if I just kill five civilians every month, right? So, uh you know, you might be creating some potentially some terrible incentives there. Um I don't want to make light of it, but you know, that's the sort of thing risk that does exist. Uh for India, you know, the dilemma is well, you've now made this commitment and this this clear connection. So, next time there's a mass casualty attack, uh you have to strike back. Now, what do you hit? uh you've already hit lat uh JM and hisbulin right so what comes next uh it's unclear uh you will might also if you continue to you uh rely on air warfare uh you know uh you you you've kind of lost that element of surprise uh knocking the enemy off balance because they can expect it uh so you know that that's another dilemma for India how do you respond uh and finally uh you know because the Pakistanis are going to learn from this um uh you know next time again is going to be unpredictable in and uh you know is this how much of this is a game that India will find will think is worth playing right because we have more important things to do we have an economy to run uh you know if the world is going through this big transition with trade right and we want to make the best of it so our that should be our focus we don't want the world associating India with uh this interminable conflict with Pakistan so those considerations will come up and you know those tensions will exist. Another fundamental tension I think that exists every time India does this is you know so obviously a a major goal for India here is uh is uh is raising the cost for Pakistan but there's also just the domestic political imperative of you know being seen to be to be doing something right and so uh so you have I think two competing objectives that India's so far managed to deal with which is one is uh being seen to be doing something and also not having a you know managing escalation right so you have to do that and how India will do that I think uh is going to challenge India's uh uh strategic strategic planners excuse me in the coming years uh Amit I was thinking like again if you look at the lens that there are two bowlers and one batsman at this end if you look at that lens there are two different goals that you have to achieve one for the MJC you this we written in a paper earlier you want to hurt but not humiliate them because if you humiliate them they will do the same thing in some other way in other things. So you want to hurt them but not humiliate first and second you also want to hurt things in Pakistan such that the Pakistani put state. other side knows that the problem is the Pakistani MJC not India because if uh the other people start thinking that actually India is the problem and MJC is our savior which is which is what MJC is trying to do then it in fact again reinforces everything uh of course now I mean you can impose some cost so there will be some sort of deterrence they will think twice over whatever they want to do but uh some crazy person can still uh override those right I mean imagine if there's another Imran Khan like character who's stronger and another Aimun kind of character who wants to prove that no no MJC is still in control and we've not lost the track there these things can go so you want to have a strategy which can achieve both these goals and it is very difficult to have those uh uh any any strategy which will be able to achieve all of them right uh so in that sense I think doing this was important from uh a strategic lens that yes there is a cost yes there is an equivalence between the Pakistani state and MJC and the terrorist state and there is no question asked don't even ask us for proofs right you know we're not playing that game and the fact that India was able to carry it through after the first some minor setback it was still able to strike the most u uh strongest part of the Pakistani military also sends a signal that yes there are uh things they have to catch up on and they are vulnerable. So in that sense there were operational victories that they will definitely be worried about. Uh Adita, one of the phrases you' used um a little while back was the danger of misjudging a red line while you know carrying these attacks out. And I really think about that because the red line of course is the point at which they are forced to go nuclear or they're forced to escalate to the point that nuclear becomes inevitable. And it would at one level be their interest to signal and again the game theory of chicken. it would be in their interest to signal that we are crazy and we'll go nuclear after the slightest confrontation because then that dampens your actions. But what we managed to do here is that you know we went pretty far in terms of damaging their military installations and the terrorist camp and hitting their air bases and all of that without them going nuclear. And uh you know that affects them because how do they deal with that? Like is there now a larger space for dominating them conventionally before they go nuclear or will they feel compelled to show in some ways that they are more irrational than we thought and that uh uh you know how does it all play out now in their heads because they lose a lot of their leverage in the narrative space and in the international geopolitical space if if it's established that they will be responsible uh in nuclear terms and not go for a first strike too soon. So how how does that dynamic play out? Is it a victory for us that we seem to have expanded the space for conventional warfare? And how would they respond to that? What's what's happening there? Give me a sense of that. Here's the thing. I I think I again I'd use Pray's word. It's a gain because you have demonstrated that there are lots of conventional options involved and you know I I don't think that was actually a mystery. Most of us did understand that those conventional options did exist but uh you know uh Pakistan sort of was busy trying to convince the world that that that India had basically nothing there was nothing India could do and uh you know I think that has been made very clear um as far as you know India establishing some sort of superiority over Pakistan as Bren said you know the differential between the armed forces is not going to be reflected in in the differential between the economies and uh Pakistan's armed forces are committed you know they're motivated. So let's not imagine that it it's going to be a walkover and the kind of force that you would need to apply in order to get Pakistan to really change its mind about this sort of thing would a would not be feasible and b might actually end up triggering those nuclear red lines. So that's not what's on the cards that what's here is is basically about trying to increase the costs for Pakistan, complicate their calculations and stuff like that. It's a long game. I you know just I I want to go a little bit further on this issue of of nuclear weapons and and conventional uh operations because u we tend to have very simplistic debates about this and the Pakistanis have enjoyed that right so you know the typical way of looking at this as well in the cold war the United States and the Soviet Union never fought each other because nuclear weapons uh well yes that that there's a lot of truth to that but you know it's it's contextual as well so uh you know the two sides did not have a ter territorial dispute ute uh the uh dispute over Berlin u you know it you had crisis in 1949 and 6162 and then after that it did dissipate and you know that that was not a core core territory between the two countries uh so you know it's a little different in those respects then there's also you know what sort of military options you have available it's really in the in the 1970s that for example the United States started focusing on uh you know basically using the information revolution implementing the information revolution in its armed forces uh you know it it it basically created a large professional force. it started using precision guided munitions, worked uh operations and all that, right? So, so it there was a fundamental revolution in in the way they conducted warfare and that that you know that's now democratized all over the world, right? Iran can do precision strikes. So that that's really changed the uh utility of conventional weapons. Uh so all of these things have changed and I think we we need to keep up with that and and understand that nuclear weapons might while while certain things might remain common. Um the extent to which nuclear weapons might prevent conventional war will differ in different periods of time. You should also point out here that if you look at the broader set of evidence that we have non-uclear powers have not really hesitated to fight nuclear powers. Right? 1973 the Arab countries attacked attacked Israel in a large conventional war. Uh very recently Ukraine attacked uh Kursk in Russia uh and they were driven out eventually but you know this is a major conventional incursion into another country. Uh lots of countries have fought the United States and lost of course but they fought the United States. So um little countries right so uh there is definitely a lot of room for conventional warfare. That's not necessarily good news. Uh but I I think we should be realistic about uh you know when we talk glibly about the nuclear revolution because you know it's it's sort of like uh it's it's the dumb version of uh of of the end of history argument. I know that's not what Francis Kokama was saying but you know the Tom Friedman version of of the end of history if if you will uh right so you know nuclear weapons so no war yeah that that's not how it works. The other point is simply that just acquiring nuclear weapons is not just turning on a switch. Uh you know it from there you build nuclear forces you you you have to have command and control you have to worry about its survivability. Uh you know there's lots of issues involved and and it's a huge investment for any country. uh and I think India's Indians are also learning that even though we have uh no first use and we have a very relaxed nuclear posture and I'm very happy we do we still end up having to say well we really need a triad right because if we want this to be credible if we really want our adversaries to be able to fear this that's that's the route you have to go so yeah nuclear weapons are are useful to a great extent uh and you know we're probably better off with them than without them uh but they're not going to buy us permanent peace and they're going to create problems of their own. On that side, I think the important import for us from this context was that uh Pakistan strategy like know we tried to do this exercise where we map out the conflict escalation ladders of both India and Pakistan against one another and see how they stack up against each other. So at the lowest level there is subconventional warfare zone right where Pakistan is doing nasty things here it is also the Pakistan's zone of plausible deniability right they can say someone's doing we are not doing above that just beyond a point we first hit Pakistan's conventional threshold because at that point of time their forces start participating with the terrorists very obviously like what it happened in Cargill right so that is their conventional threshold was lower than our convent conventional threshold uh and their nuclear threshold they always want to bring it down that's why they talk about tactical nuclear weapons and all the stories that they tell because they want to equate India's conventional threshold with their nuclear threshold in the sense that they keep when they'll keep doing the nasty subconventional stuff they might sometimes even try to do things like cargill but as soon as India brings in its conventional forces there might be things that they can do on the nuclear side and That's what they tried to convince the world about it that not just the big nuclear weapons they also have some tactical nukes etc. To which India's response was that all these weapons are nuclear weapons are uh nuclear weapons we don't worry if it is tactical or strategic they will get a nuclear response from us so in that sense India tried to equate their nuclear threshold will have consequences and we will be meeting them with that. If you look at if you try to map this it's difficult to do this in a podcast but in a image if you see this it means they were trying to maximize the lower zone which is zone of subconventional warfare uh and minimize the zone of two-sided conventional warfare where India and Pakistan both use force. Now if you see with what has happened over the last few years it has India has sort of demonstrated that Pakistan's nuclear threshold is much higher than what they claimed uh it was and what they were telling the world. So in first India opened up the space India lowered its own conventional threshold below Pakistan's after Uri by responding through surgical strike. So first India proved that actually beyond subconventional warfare there is a zone uh where India can respond and uh you know it can be called a single-sided conventional warfare or we called it the posturri normal uh and with these attacks actually India has proven that there is also a zone called bothsided conventional warfare where both sides can use their conventional forces and there is no uh nuclear threshold being hit. So in that thing in that sense we have the theory was there earlier but this is again like the Singh there is now an empirical proof also that yeah both sided conventional warfares do happen both sides do want to deescalate and if there are things that Pakistan does through subconventional means it can get uh it can expect a response in the conventional threshold to which it will also respond in the conventional domain. So let me let me try to uh sum it up in a visual sort of way and you can tell me if I'm kind of getting it right because this is a very powerful framework for thinking about this that imagine that there are three layers and there's India Pakistan on each side and there are three layers and the bottommost layer is subconventional warfare which is all of this terrorist stuff and so on then the middle layer would be conventional warfare and the top layer layer would be nuclear warfare and if one side goes to the higher layer the other side has to there is absolutely no option. So their ideal situation is there is a huge layer of subconventional warfare and the moment we go to the higher level of conventional warfare. Their threat is that we keep that layer thin and we straight away go to nuclear warfare in which case both sides are there and since India wants to avoid that at all costs for rational reasons we are much less likely to escalate to conventional warfare. And what we have said what we have now sort of indicated is two things. One is that uh the subconventional warfare that we allow them is much less and we are happy to go to conventional warfare and we will go to conventional warfare and not worry about the nuclear warfare bluff in a sense to a certain extent. We called the bluff this time and said that we will continue with that conventional warfare and we will not let you escalate because ultimately it's a game of chicken and even Pakistan knows that hey no one wants nuclear war like why would you do something like that and so in both these ways it's kind of a triumph for India because it not only reduces their credibility of going to the nuclear layer but it also reduces their time in the subconventional layer because we have said that okay the next time there's an attack we are going to respond and is going to be something like this. Is that a correct understanding? Yeah, that is correct. So they want to maximize the subconventional warfare zone. We want to minimize it and conversely they want to minimize the bothsided conventional warfare zone whereas we want to maximize it to show that there is space and we will respond. So that's how I would put it. Yeah. And the therefore one option that they can come up with therefore is that the next time something like this happens they do one tactical nuclear strike uh with a relatively uh small and whatever they do one tactical nuclear strike and hope that the world stops a war in which case uh it reverts it reverts to a very big subconventional space and uh you know they would have shown that they can go nuclear at the hit of a button. So how plausible is it for them to actually think in that way and how can we counter that? Oh okay. So the yeah the the military risks of that frankly the ex existential risks of that are so huge that it's unlikely Pakistan would do that. They could probably perhaps do something like conduct a nuclear test but there would be diplomatic uh consequences to that which they might be willing to bear. Uh but yeah, I mean just you know if if we were we were to turn this framework into a phrase it would be that India has pried open the conventional space by pushing down the subconventional space and pushing up the nuclear space right uh so that's that's what India's done for Pakistan to be able to push that back with for example a tactical nuclear weapon at the moment you hit uh some you know troops uh in any Indian military facility or or Indian troops even if they're operating within Pakistan you All bets are off about what happens next because yes India's doctrine says uh massive retaliation but it doesn't say how massive. It doesn't say what exactly India will do. Do Pakistanis really want to go into that domain? The uh you know over here basically both countries are sort of putting the onus of the of the difficult decisions the onus of the difficult escalation decisions on the other. So a Pakist a subconventional strike from Pakistan puts the onus on India to respond with conventional uh military operations and uh India's conventional military operations puts the onus on Pakistan to consider the nuclear option but that's that's that's some way off in the distance. Yeah. And I would just say that for you know for Pakistan you know those nuclear weapons are not just aimed at India but they're also aimed at the rest of the world. They are meant to catalyze uh intervention in its favor. So you know let's let's talk about where things uh stand now and I want to do this also across two different domains and one is military capability itself like we've learned a lot of useful stuff some of it has been heartening at the same time we lost two or three aircraft whatever the number might be uh there is word going around that one of them might be a Rafale which could be a big disaster there is one school of thought which says that hey the Rafiles are actually the only modern aircraft we have and there are 36 of them and we lost one and the rest is old Soviet era stuff which will fall apart but then as it turns out the air force did a pretty outstanding job. So um you know there is a fog of information happening there as well but in a broader sense what can we say about the challenges for uh you know the Indian armed forces today and I don't just mean uh the challenges that you laid out in your wonderful peace and money control where you spoke about you know three levels of challenges which are uh drones and expend expendable munitions saturating the airspace. We already spoke about that supersonic and hypersonic missiles and also stealth aircraft. Those are like technical challenges and I assume that people within the armed forces will be working on them. But I mean the larger kind of challenges that you know there is that saying about how every general is fighting the last war and here things are moving so fast we don't even know what the next war is going to be. We have seen what the massive use of drones has done to the landscape in the Russia Ukraine war where a lot of the truisms of modern warfare have just flown out of the window. You know, I worry about the use of drones even in subconventional warfare. Like what could stop uh somebody putting a lot of money in and actually using drones for terrorist activity. Imagine a thousand drones armed with you know uh homemade explo explosives just going into an Indian city and then you know that's easy to organize and there is perhaps even plausible deniability if they engineer something like that. So we don't know what modern warfare could look like or will look like in the future. So taking that into account taking into account what I mentioned earlier about the sense of the Indian army as opposed to the air force and the navy as this massive oified bureaucracy where decision-m happens slowly u there might or might not be massive corruption greasing every wheel that is uh you know in there um you know so one hears a lot of that in the popular uh discourse so we will rely on you Adita to you know bring us up to date with where do things stand as far as our military apparatus is concerned and what are the key challenges at a larger strategic level um and at at an organizational level that uh they are confronted with um uh you know how do we think about all of that because our potential enemy in the future is really not just our western neighbor but also China and that's a whole different ballgame. Yeah. Uh that's great. I'll I'll just take a step back and say you know why do we have armed forces? And to me yes I mean the the armed forces do some important things. you can tackle terrorism, you can protect say the Himalayan borders and all that. But really uh India's armed forces are about something much more profound. I think that if having disciplined civilian-led highly capable armed forces are really about securing India's long-term future. So it's it's really about securing the space for India to make its own autonomous decisions uh trade with the world on terms and and and according to norms that it prefers and it's you know that ultimately leads to economic growth in India. It's about social mobility. It's about individual freedom, women's emancipation. Now even if you're a senior military officer, you may may not see that link. But you know at at the policy level that's really what what it's it's about. The worst argument I suppose that anyone can make is you need more money. But I I suspect we do need more money at this stage. Uh you know uh Nathan Pi for example has has made the argument that we need a surge in defense spending. That's probably right. Uh ideally we would started a slight increase in defense spending 10 years or 15 years back. U but you know we're here now and I think the more we delay it the more we're going to find ourselves suddenly doing a lot more emergency procurements suddenly seeing a surge which is in defense spending which is not fiscally responsible and things like that. So you know it's it's good to get get a head start on this. Uh you know some some great things that have happened is that we have some degree of privatization in in the defense sector. We have now actually you know defense startups are actually a thing that exist. We don't know how far they'll go how far they'll be successful but that they exist and that you know they're led by passionate founders I think is is is a big improvement in India. The other issue you're talking about is you know force planning. How do you plan for the future? We always tend to have fairly simplistic ideas about what the future might look like. I mean, as soon as air power was born, it was assumed that air power would dominate everything. You didn't need an army or a navy because you just destroy the other side cities and you'd break their will. And so it it really depended on who struck first, you know, things like that. Uh we had some overblown claims about nuclear weapons, though we should be a lot more sober about that. And you know uh after the Gulf War the the Persian Gulf War in 1991 uh there are a lot of people in America who actually very confidently said that the fog of war was now a thing of history because we had so much information. We all know that's not true. You know right there's deception. There's just the delusion of information. All of these things actually end up worsening the fog of war. You know uh the way we like to put it is that the nature of war is enduring. So you know it's about a violent clash of wills. It's about trying to seek political objectives and it involves uh the armed forces, the will of the people as well as the plans of the decision makers and all of those three are in are in tension with each other and that you know and it exists in a fog of war and that that fundamental those fundamental features don't really change over periods of time. That's why we can look back at a war that occurred 2500 years back and say, well, that is a war, right? We can point out and say that's a war because these uh underlying uh phenomena continue to persist. But of course, the character of war changes drastically over periods of time and they can change in a decade or two. So yes, uh absolutely uh you know, drones are are going to be super important in the future, but they're likely going to exist in a battle space with other types of uh capabilities, right? So, uh, you a you're going to, you know, drone is this catch-all word. So, you know, people think of this little commercial DJI quadcopter, but it's, you know, at the other hand, you have something like an MQ9B, you know, which is really it's it's it's it's a jet uh combat aircraft that just doesn't happen to have a pilot inside it, right? So, so you have all of these things and uh you're likely to see all of these capabilities being used. One thing I think we can say uh with some confidence about this you know when we're thinking about planning for the future is that you are going to have a lot more uninhabited platforms let's put it like that and these are going to be uh more expendable than say uh platforms like the Rafal but it doesn't mean that the Rafal is going to disappear what what's going to happen is that those things are going to basically provide the screen for these more capable platforms like Rafals uh like the J35 like the J20 to come in and and do other types of punishing strikes. X the other point is uh you know uh as far as air power is concerned uh you know fixed wing aircraft are in general I think piloted fixed wing aircraft are less relevant than they were say 70 or 80 years back uh that's because a you have these uh uninhabited platforms but also you have standoff systems basically missiles right so missiles can do a lot of the work so India and Pakistan you know the aircraft didn't actually cross into each other's airspace they were able to use these standoff fires so that is going to increase a lot and in the case of China you know uh this is going to be a much much bigger challenge so we shouldn't be fixated too much on this particular conflict that that just passed us you know you have a country that for example uh can saturate your airfields with uh longrange ballistic and cruise missiles uh which are very difficult to uh defend against so what happens when your airfields are put out of action your hangers are hit uh what happens when you know u let let's look at the doomsday scenario what happens when in the first 48 hours of a conflict you lose lose half of your aircraft uh because there are multiple surprise strikes u you know Pakist the Chinese are able to use beyond visual range missiles for example to knock knock out aircraft that are in the air what happens then so you know we need to plan uh in that way to have resilience uh in the face of a superior enemy um so you know can you use other facilities can you even use as you know have we've seen some evidence of practice of using of highways and so on for uh you for aircraft. Now that's not that's that's not easy because aircraft like I mentioned depend on on on a lot of logistics and and particular facilities. So uh but you know we need to be able to train for that kind of resilience. our air defenses have already begun to have that but you know it's it's one thing dealing with Pakistan uh on the western border where you know where the air the air defenses are already uh sort of thick on both sides you know it's very dense environment air defense environment along a long border with Pakistan as well as on the maritime frontier that's going to be a lot more complicated and uh finally uh you know we should not be too fixated on on uh on the terrestrial domain we should really think about what this might mean mean for the Indian navy you are going to need some ability to uh project power across the Indian Ocean. So that's going to require uh a whole variety of submarines uh conventional submarines with uh advanced uh with uh uh air independent air independent propulsion which basically means they can stay underwater for longer periods of uh nuclearpowered attack submarines that can stay submerged for months. You you know we talked about the nuclear deterrent being put at sea and then of course uh you know the the Navy does have uh ambitions for aircraft carriers. I don't know how that's going to pan out, but it might be useful to have some kind of mobile air power at sea as well. So, there's a lot to be done. There's a lot of capital expenditure, and I it doesn't thrill me. Uh I would actually, believe it or not, live in a world in which we had zero defense spending. You know, I think we'd all be better off that way. uh but uh we are probably going to need a surge in defense spending to manage some of these capital expenditures and uh you know to to make that uh you know not just uh to to to spend that money intelligently I think we should try and see what it is that we can make in India by that I don't mean being at all that I I mean having collaborations intelligent collaborations with other countries so we can learn from them we can build technology and we can invest some of that money back in our own economy Uh actually Amit and I were discussing this yesterday also. Uh if the future is drones and drones are being used so extensively uh isn't that the area that needs to be focused on a lot more whether it is counter drones or having your own drone forces rather than the conventional way of uh acquiring force. So uh yes. So uh yes in the sense that they're they're going to be a big part of the answer. U but for example um by by its very nature u having a small aircraft a small jet powered aircraft it means it has limited range and payload right. Uh so for example how do you extend its range so maybe you need another vessel for example at sea for it to launch from. So uh uh you know all of those actually end up meaning that you do need certain large platforms. you're right that those large platforms are potentially more vulnerable now which is why air defenses whether they're terrestrial or naval air defenses are going to evolve uh to tackle those threats. We've already seen for example with the US campaign against the Houthis uh that the ability to project power from land uh against uh large vessels has increased in the last 15 or 20 years. And so you know this these sort of phases do come about in history where you know the land power uh you know the ability to project power from land onto sea increases and then there's a push back from the naval platforms and I think that's going to happen but you know these are these are the realities that you have to constantly deal with. Uh so uh the only reason I I say you don't you know drones are not going to be the only answer is because by their very nature by the laws of physics they have limited range uh and limited payload and uh ultimately to extend their range either you have to have bigger platforms uh or you need to have a bigger ve attack vectors. So so something like a missile instead of a drone. Amit I wanted to come in on that Rafal question and I I've been reading a lot of that again I put that in the tactical domain not in the operational so operationally we have been more successful than Pakistan so but let's come to the tactical aspect right I think there's a lot of focus on that one from the Pakistani side obviously they want to project that tactical gain as a operational and strategic victory as well but even if you think relieve The Pakistani claims aside the conversation so what if we lose one Rafael like it's cost $250 million it is 2,000 crores that's not a big sum for the Indian government right like I mean they can amass that uh it's so the question is really coming from the broader geopolitics like what does it mean for a Chinese platform versus an advanced west platform the Chinese want to sell their equipment the salt wants to sell its equipment uh and Loheed Martin wants to sell its equipment. So they all are in this information ecosystem this is very important to them right because every deal can every aircraft can give them 2,000 crores and $250 million. So a lot of the attention on this is coming from the broader uh ecosystem. It doesn't have a bearing so much on the India I mean India still operationally one. So what if that if these claims are true? The second thing also is last time a lot of in the Indian psyche a lot of this claim of a plane getting shot down exists because there it there it draws equivalence to what happened the last time right there was an Indian aircraft on that side which fell and there was a Indian pilot which was captured so that was what happened but this time that was not the scenario at all if the Indian aircraft were taken down it was on the Indian side and it's not as if any platform is invulnerable right um it is an ingredient you have to take that ingredient you need a recipe to make a very nice dish. So uh in here the risks will be very high like we were talking about in terms of the air defenses. So there will be some losses uh and uh even those losses have to be taken whether the recipe was the problem whether the ingredient was a problem. Maybe the ingredient was fine, the Rafael was fine given that we were doing a very risky mission might be the problem or we didn't anticipate might be the problem. So those are the kinds of analysis but a lot of focus in media is on one from the Pakistani side to show that you know we have the great thing and other thing is to show that Chinese platforms might be equivalent to the western platforms. I don't think that none of these are wellounded unless we get to these details and from an Indian point of view I am I would say so what yeah I I almost completely agree with uh you pne uh the only thing is uh you know the loss of aircraft in a in a prolonged conflict is not just about the money but it's also just about having them because you can't replace them immediately so I don't want our Rafals to exist in a battlefield environment where they where where we're just using those expend expendable expensive platforms excuse Excuse me, but we using multiple ones including those we can afford to lose. I think we're already seeing the beginnings of that and but you know in terms of u you know why we lost lost those aircraft you know we can only speculate but you know some of the reasons might simply be because there was a political decision to not uh suppress Pakistani air defenses and that you know there's there is a legitimate political case to be made for that and the fact that the Pakistanis uh rested the initiative and uh they they did fire missiles uh across uh the uh the international uh border and LOC. So that was also a new element and and I think you know we need to start worrying or start thinking is is what happens the next time uh because uh you know how does for example India deal with the reality that we are routinely now going to engage each other's aircraft um during a crisis uh over each other's airspace and so you know again it'll be the pressure will be on India to rest that initiative away from Pakistan and Pakistan will will know that and will be trying to you know figure out its own response so you We will understand the tech tactical details only later. But I think for our purposes here, I think the conclusion we can draw is that this is going to get more complicated and also potentially more dangerous in the future. Let's talk about the geopolitical aspect of it because this is not a two-player game. It's a multiplayer game. You know, you guys have shed a lot of light today and thank you for that on India visa v Pakistan and how they might be a new normal etc etc. But you know, China is an interested party in this. The USA is an interested party in this. That geopolitical field is uh a field of really dynamic action. Things are changing every day. Uh etc. etc. over there. What is your sense of this like India what they would what we would desperately have wanted to do is avoid the hyphenation. We are too big for this. We've gone well beyond this. Uh you know as Nathan likes to say and I agree wholeheartedly a rising GDP is the best foreign policy. That's what uh we should have had going for us. I mean things haven't been as uh good there as I would have wanted them to be in the last 10 years. But we are still way ahead of Pakistan and uh that's in place. But it's a changing world. There are crazy dynamics. It was a time for example where the US could be relied upon to be a responsible intermediary which would immediately step in and try to stop uh nuclear war which you know apparently I mean Marco Rubio was of course talking to Moner and all of that and that stuff was happening but Trump is inherently much more unpredictable there. There is a dynamic of the USChina trade wars and everything that's going on there. There is also the question of what game is China playing which is um shrouded at least for me in a lot of mystery that you don't even really fully realize what the long-term objectives are and so on and so forth. So what's your sense of the geopolitics of this and how much has that been affected by what just happened? Have we strengthened our hand over there and gained more respect or uh what's going on there? Give me a sense of that. First of all, the China element is probably involved in how we prepared for this uh war also, right? I mean, the fact that we had good air defense etc. was probably because we were preparing for the China threat also, right? If if the threat would have been Pakistan and that would have occupied our mental bandwidth, we would not even have been prepared for this. So I think there's a lot of thing which has happened because of that quote unquote creative insecurity due to China itself uh being our uh main adversary in our minds in our preparation etc. So that is a really important point. The second uh thing is see one thing is to other sides the third fourth sides are also seeing that can India be kept blocked in into this subcontinent by always engaging with Pakistan uh right that is the Chinese strategy then that's why they back Pakistan uh if uh in the Indian subcontinent so the Indian strategy would be sometimes you can do strategic restraint and say Okay, these things happened, we'll move on. But to signal to others, sometimes you also have to act crazy. You have to send a signal that we can sort things out in our subcontinent and yet be ready for bigger things, right? Then that is the signal that you also want to send at some points of time. So I've seen like many times people compare that 2008 we exercise strategic restraint was that the right way forward and how does that compare with 2025? I think both of them were correct. the 2008 were where at that point of time in US Pakistan India relations were almost a triangle you know so India uh India showed itself far apart from the other side by doing what it did back then but today's geopolitical scenario is very different one the world itself is in a bit of a chaos in fact if you wanted to do something this is the right time to do something because the world is in a chaos I mean they will things India and Pakistan both could do things before uh anything else happened. Right? So that itself proves there is that space which has opened up. India US relations are on a different trajectory than they were earlier. So in that sense I think sending the signal that some things if they happen in India, India will respond with force with restraint but with proportion and uh it will not uh let it go easy is an important message to send. So uh it depends now what happens here on right uh so as we discussed operationally we've proved now strategy wise does that cold India the the gain that we talked about does get get consolidated over the next uh year etc that will be a more stronger signal to the rest of the world I think one interesting uh thing over here for us to see is uh is the American response uh so you know we've heard some uh pretty loose statements from Donald Trump. Now what I don't know is uh whether he's going to actually follow up on that or you know he'll get distracted by some other shiny object potentially the Russia Ukraine war. Uh if that happens it's it's good news for India but uh if he in fact today the state department has already said that they want India and Pakistan to do things uh sort it out by themselves. So you are going to have that sort of resistance from within the bureaucracy but I just hope that sustains. I mean so the the the American uh experience with this hasn't been great right I mean so the most recent example was when Obama uh you know got he sort of decided well you know we'll just get India and Pakistan to solve this whole Kashmir business and then we can focus on our war on terror I mean it's a kind of silly way of approaching this he appointed u Richard Hullbrook as a veteran uh negotiator diplomat uh uh as as a special adviser to Afghanistan and Pakistan and of course it didn't work out and and you know I think the experience I you know maybe Trump doesn't understand the degree of complexity that's involved in this and potentially you know even if he decides to pursue it it shouldn't be too long before he gets bored of it. Um so uh I mean that that's definitely the Indian hope but as of now it's the very fact that this has been inter internationalized is is is a challenge for India and I think we talked about hyphenation that hyphenation is an inherent challenge with pursuing this particular policy that India has. It's going to have to figure out how to deal with. So if you're an Indian diplomat, you're you have your hands full now over the next few years. Yeah. I I also think you know until now like we were discussing the strategy was to ignore Pakistan, right? Like we will do our stuff, let them do their stuff, we don't have to do anything. But th this these attacks on April 22 again prove that that ignorance might not translate to ignorance from their end and you will have to have a way to manage them and respond to them regardless. So uh the way to get dehyenated is also is not some is on most occasions to do your own thing and not be bothered but also at some points to send a signal that if you mess with us we will mess with you. So as my uh penultimate uh question for you guys that if we look ahead say five or 10 years like over the next 5 or 10 years what's the best case scenario and a worst case scenario uh in your minds as far as this playing out is concerned because in a sense uh you know there was already a worst case scenario playing out in my head when all of this was happening where even in the thick of things uh with all the misinformation going around even at that time it was clear to me that on the one hand the incentives of both sides are to deescalate and now to chill and control the narrative. But at the same time, not everything is in their control. In the sense, my real worry was that if one of the strikes by either party causes large civilian casualties, then the public outro that would result from that would make it politically impossible for that particular country to then back down and to not retaliate and to not escalate and things could go completely out of hand if that started happening. And I was really worried about that. and thankfully nothing uh uh you know really happened and we are both fine. So what is what is your sense therefore of what could possibly go wrong and where uh uh that could go and you know obviously the worst scenario is nuclear war mutual annihilation but you know quite apart from that what is the best case scenario so how how would you guys think about this and perhaps if you want to attach probabilities to those as well okay I I'll give it a shot so you know obviously the the best case scenario is nobody dies and uh there's no more terrorist attacks and uh you know we can potentially no more conventional clash between India and Pakistan because we do have other things we want to achieve. But uh in the event that there are attacks of of the sort in the future, yes, ideally we'd like a for this to be limited and b for India to maintain the initiative and be able to uh you know end end these in a way that India prefers. Uh one thing that's happened here is that while uh you know the Pakistani establishment, the MJC definitely understands that you know the costs from here on are going to be more prohibitive. I don't think that message is passed on to uh the populace uh I think Pakistanis genuinely believe they've won this in quotes. So uh you know a future clash may not be so difficult for the MJC to to handle and and my concern is that uh we get into a series of uh punishing clashes in which there's no victors and no vanquished and uh uh India gets uh hyphenated once again for good. Uh investors start getting skittish about India you know that sort of thing. Uh I I think that's the that's the scenario we we we need to avoid and and we need to figure out a way out of that. And one you know potential ways is you know might might just come down to figuring out what we mean by that kind of retaliation. Uh you know when we say limited war or limited conflict it's you know it can be limited in multiple ways. It can be limited in terms of time. So something like this was limited in terms of time is just about 3 and 1/2 days. Uh but it wasn't necessarily limited that much in geography because you had these longrange strikes or you can have a limited but longer conflict. So Cargill is something of along those lines. uh so you have a geographical delimitation and you also constrain some of the actions you do for example you don't conduct air strikes across the LOC and you don't have troops crossing across the LOC at least not in a significant way so that's that that's one sort of another sort of limitation you can employ so I think that whatever India does in the future uh should be something new something that uh uh rests the initiative from the Pakistanis and and shows that there are multiple options for waging uh a limited conventional convent conventional operations and that you know that India has multiple ways of increasing costs for Pakistan. Yeah. So that that's the good scenario. My I'm I'm really concerned that uh we are getting into a commitment where we get into a bunch of clashes that we'd rather not get into. What are the percentages you would uh you know give for the best case and the worst case? Uh oh boy. um I I would say 50% uh India uh to to basically managing limited uh conflicts in in the future. I I I put uh getting into uh a series of the whole point of getting in uh to a series of clashes where you don't want to I'd say 40%. Um I think that's that's still a significant risk. Okay. So I want to actually take it to a different domain which is uh information ecosystem. For me the scariest scenario is if these parallel and frankly delusional information ecosystems strengthen even more. You know just look at this uh uh last 20 25 days right the Pakistanis the MJC and the Pakistani people really thought that India is so communalized and polarized that they can say that this is done by Indians themselves on them and get and they they actually believed that story right uh so that's the delusion on their side I think the Indians I don't think the Indian government thinks that but Indians also thought that Pakistan is so weak that we can take Pakistan occupied Jammu and Kashmir. If we could do that in 197 1971 with East Pakistan becoming Bangladesh, why can't it happen now? Right? Forget the fact that now both sides have nuclear weapons. But there is delusions on both sides and if those delusions are not given a reality check then we can have you know more escalations. What so what let's do this kind of a thing right? That is my uh fear actually that uh we need a ser understanding of both sides on both sides they need to understand what the reality is uh which is not happening now you know uh the information ecosystem is too broken uh for that to happen on the positive side I think I am uh reasonably confident that this draws a red line on uh really these cowardly attacks on civilians uh you know uh I think their terrorism won't end it's like uh we can never have 100% compliance or anything like that so there will be some things that might happen it there are many factors involved in that but this kind of signal being sent to Pakistan really uh tells them that attacking civilians uh becomes uh comes at a very high cost for them and I think as rational actors they would also be thinking about what uh that this is something they need to be aware of. Do you want to put probabilistic numbers to this? A positive uh scenario happening both are mutually uh they are mutually ex yeah the both of them can happen simultaneously essentially. So I think uh the the there is a high likelihood I would say 60% that in the next 3 4 years a big civilian attack doesn't happen and there will be some other terrorism uh uh and uh the other thing on a parallel ecosystems I think that is also 70% that we will still have this kind of uh delusions on both sides. Yeah, the parallel ecosystem was just nuts in the sense that no matter what India did, we should be so proud that Z news on its own next Punjab and Sind within two hours on that particular night and you know one was hearing rumors of Bangalore port has been destroyed, Feslabad port has been destroyed and I was like port I have been to both the cities where I didn't see any water. This is so uh awesome and and there was this you know you spoke about the delusional nature of popular beliefs. There was this video I was forwarding to my friends yesterday of uh this Bengali starlet called Kushi Mukherji you know fetching short uh gold dress and nothing else famously and obviously uh being asked by some paparazzi about India Pakistan and she said I wish it had gone on a little longer because then we would have taken over P and uh and this is actually a sort of a uh uh you know both sides have such uh delusions among them but thankfully uh you know so far things haven't deteriorated and uh uh you know more part of the people of both sides actually. So uh you know um but this was not an episode about you know the broader um aspects of Pakistani society um but just about this particular conflict. So my final question also is not really about the conflict. You've shed so much light on it and uh you know after so much fog of war. Thank you so much for coming on the show and this is really refreshing. My final question you will know is particularly difficult for Prane because he did this last week. But for my listeners and me I'd like recommendations of books, films, music that you've been enjoying recently. Prane has just read a couple of weeks. Uh so uh I'm I'm sorry if you haven't uh sort of read anything new in that time but then I know you read a lot so hopefully so yeah uh okay sure I I can go first. Uh I I could maybe suggest a couple of books that are potentially relevant to this. uh one is uh a book on the uh Israel Egypt war of attrition 1969 to 70 uh it's by uh uh Yakovbar Simonto um was I think published in 1980 and another book is uh I think better known is uh inadvertent escalation by Barry Posen. It's a book from 1991. It's never been out of print since then. Renee, what about you? Don't look so worried. I'm so sorry for doing this to you. No no I uh there are bunch of great books on Pakistan and again I come from the lens that even if it is your adversary you need to understand the because it is actually your adversary you need to understand it a lot better than other uh countries right so in that sense the I think the people next door by ambassador TC Ragwan is a great book very enjoyable read uh and that's one uh recently Atul Mishra had a book called the sovereign lives of Pakistan which is pretty good as well. Uh and Hussein Akani has a bunch of books on Pakistan. So better to get the Pakistani view not just the India Pakistan relation but uh that is great and one book that Empires of the Indas by Alice Albania is a great book on just uh about Pakistan in general. So uh these are like timeless classics uh to understand some of these things and I would also say that uh because we need to understand the adversary well we run a fellowship called the network for the advanced study of Pakistan where the aim is for us to understand objectively uh their capabilities their weaknesses everything you know uh and as researchers and analysts not as uh you know nationalists but primarily as analysts How do we understand another uh country, another society, another armed forces and uh the next cohort will uh its intake will start soon. So people in India who are interested do apply and uh contribute to this exercise because as these events have shown we think we know a lot about Pakistan but we really know a lot less than what we think we do. So it's important for us to build our research infrastructure within India to understand our adversaries and neighbors. Thank you so much for doing this. Uh you know um learned a lot and a lot to process. So thanks a lot. Thanks. Thank you. If you enjoyed listening to this episode, check out the show notes. Enter rabbit holes at will. And if you find this subject particularly interesting, here's an opportunity for you. NASP fellowships are now open. What is NASP? Well, it's a network for advanced study of Pakistan set up by the Takshila Institution with the purpose of creating highquality scholarship and knowledge of Pakistan. Such knowledge is typically dispersed and often outside this country. The fellowship addresses both challenges by linking carefully selected researchers with global mentors who will train and guide them over a year both online and offline. Pranet is one of those mentors by the way. So, if you're interested in applying, head on over to the Takuishila website. I will link it from the show notes. You can follow Prani on Twitter at Pranikotas. You can follow Aditya at Aditya Scripts. You can follow me at AmitmaB. You can browse past episodes of the scene and the unseen at seen unseen. And every podcast app of your choice. Thank you for listening. Did you enjoy this episode of The Scene and the Unseen? If so, would you like to support the production of the show? You can go over to sceneunseene.in/support in/support and contribute any amount you like to keep this podcast alive and kicking. Thank you.