================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: VirSuQzVYZw
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VirSuQzVYZw
TITLE: Marriage Green Cards: Will More Couples Be Denied or Deported Under New Rules?
CHANNEL: Reddy Neumann Brown PC
PUBLISHED: 2025-08-12
DURATION: 1h 5m 17s
VIEWS: 8,797
LIKES: 33
COMMENTS: 1

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
NTAs to H-1B Workers Still in Grace Period — New Update

IRS Payroll Records in USCIS Hands — New Immigration Scrutiny

Don’t Count on the Dignity Act — Here’s Why

If you want to book an appointment: 
 
https://appointments.rnlawgroup.com

Reddy Neumann Brown P.C. provides a Free Daily Zoom Conference where you can speak to an attorney to get answers to your basic immigration questions. For the call schedule, visit:

https://www.rnlawgroup.com/resources/conference-call-schedule/

Information provided on Facebook or YouTube Live should not be construed as legal advice for your specific situation. Nor does it constitute an engagement with REDDY NEUMANN BROWN P.C., or establish an attorney-client relationship. For specific advice on your situation, please contact an attorney immediately.

Stay In touch with Reddy Neumann Brown, P.C. by following us on all of our social media platforms:

Follow us on Telegram:  https://t.me/+hCoANMesLP9iNzkx 

Follow us on Instagram: (@rnlawgroup) | https
... [truncated]

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 158
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: yt-dlp
Language: en
Word count: 21,815

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
live from Houston. We do bring in live from Houston. We do bring in immigration updates every Tuesday from immigration updates every Tuesday from 5:00 to 6 p.m. We take live questions. 5:00 to 6 p.m. We take live questions. Uh along with me is my business partner Uh along with me is my business partner Steven Brown. Stephen, what do we have Steven Brown. Stephen, what do we have today to discuss? today to discuss? Yeah, we're going to talk about a couple Yeah, we're going to talk about a couple of uh big topics here. Marriagebased of uh big topics here. Marriagebased green cards. Um if we're going to see green cards. Um if we're going to see more couples getting denied or deported more couples getting denied or deported under some new policy guidance that's under some new policy guidance that's out there. Um we'll talk about that. out there. Um we'll talk about that. We'll give updates to the NTAs for H-1B We'll give updates to the NTAs for H-1B workers that are taking actions while workers that are taking actions while they're in the grace period. Um, we'll they're in the grace period. Um, we'll also talk about the current push by the also talk about the current push by the administration to get IRS payroll administration to get IRS payroll records into uh immigration authorities records into uh immigration authorities hands and what scrutiny we're we might hands and what scrutiny we're we might be seeing from that. Uh, and then we're be seeing from that. Uh, and then we're going to also talk about the uh, dignity going to also talk about the uh, dignity act that's up at Congress. It's a act that's up at Congress. It's a renewal of the 23 2023 uh, dignity act. renewal of the 23 2023 uh, dignity act. and we'll talk about what you know and we'll talk about what you know what's kind of in it what uh and what to what's kind of in it what uh and what to expect on that. expect on that. Okay. First on the marriage based green Okay. First on the marriage based green card applications there have been couple card applications there have been couple of updates there are they made it more of updates there are they made it more stricter for the people to prove that stricter for the people to prove that their marriage is genuine. Uh they have their marriage is genuine. Uh they have categorized that anybody who has uh categorized that anybody who has uh certain aspects they would be calling certain aspects they would be calling for interview which was in general they for interview which was in general they were calling for interviews too. What were calling for interviews too. What was surprising to me Steven is that uh was surprising to me Steven is that uh you me and Emily have been telling all you me and Emily have been telling all along that if the person is out of along that if the person is out of status also they can still get the green status also they can still get the green card if they are married to a US citizen card if they are married to a US citizen as long as the marriage is genuine. as long as the marriage is genuine. That's what we told previously. However, That's what we told previously. However, USCIS now says that if the USCIS finds USCIS now says that if the USCIS finds that the person is not maintaining the that the person is not maintaining the status or out of status, they can issue status or out of status, they can issue a notice to appear a notice to appear um and the case will be uh the case will um and the case will be uh the case will complicate it where the person has to go complicate it where the person has to go to the immigration court and request the to the immigration court and request the immigration court to put it back to immigration court to put it back to USCs. It's going to be very expensive USCs. It's going to be very expensive process though. So that's process though. So that's Go ahead. Go ahead. Go ahead. No. Uh that definitely is becoming a big No. Uh that definitely is becoming a big problem because just to get the same problem because just to get the same thing done you have to file with the thing done you have to file with the immigration then you have to go to the immigration then you have to go to the immigration court and who knows they may immigration court and who knows they may even detain this person for a temporary even detain this person for a temporary until immigration judge gives a bail and until immigration judge gives a bail and then afterwards you move it back to then afterwards you move it back to USCIS and then get the things USCIS and then get the things adjudicated in USCs. This is we're only adjudicated in USCs. This is we're only speaking about genuine marriages only. speaking about genuine marriages only. Um go ahead Stephen you're speaking Um go ahead Stephen you're speaking something. Yeah, I mean it it's still something. Yeah, I mean it it's still going to work out I think in the long going to work out I think in the long run. You know, somebody who's entered uh run. You know, somebody who's entered uh with inspection, you know, you you with inspection, you know, you you entered the country lawfully, maintained entered the country lawfully, maintained status, and then you lose that status uh status, and then you lose that status uh or technic, you know, typically under or technic, you know, typically under the um you know, excuse me, immediate the um you know, excuse me, immediate relatives, everything gets cured uh with relatives, everything gets cured uh with that. But again, because what we've seen that. But again, because what we've seen in the last few months, USCIS has kind in the last few months, USCIS has kind of taken new looks at everything, it of taken new looks at everything, it just might be something to to be aware just might be something to to be aware of of additional hurdles you might need of of additional hurdles you might need to to go through. Um, and when you have to to go through. Um, and when you have an administration, Rahul, that's all an administration, Rahul, that's all about removal numbers and arrest numbers about removal numbers and arrest numbers rather than, you know, actually getting rather than, you know, actually getting all the the the bad actors the way they all the the the bad actors the way they kind of campaigned. uh good people are kind of campaigned. uh good people are uh are going to get caught in the uh are going to get caught in the crossfire. crossfire. crossfire. Um I would say that it will become three Um I would say that it will become three to five times expensive if somebody has to five times expensive if somebody has not maintained the status or I would not maintained the status or I would even say even more and very stressful even say even more and very stressful for the people to get the green card. for the people to get the green card. It's going to be expensive for the It's going to be expensive for the immigration the government also to deal immigration the government also to deal with because eventually they will have with because eventually they will have to give the green card to this guy. Why to give the green card to this guy. Why give that person to go to immigration give that person to go to immigration court eyes immigration customs court eyes immigration customs enforcement come back to USCIS and still enforcement come back to USCIS and still give them the green card? However, as we give them the green card? However, as we know that the big budget bill has big know that the big budget bill has big beautiful bill has the extra $110 beautiful bill has the extra $110 billion. They have the budget and billion. They have the budget and they're using against these individuals they're using against these individuals unnecessarily to create a hurdles. Uh unnecessarily to create a hurdles. Uh but well that's what this administration but well that's what this administration is right now. But anybody who is is right now. But anybody who is planning to file an adjustment of status planning to file an adjustment of status who has ever violated the status who has ever violated the status definitely they need to be very careful definitely they need to be very careful when filing this application. Anything when filing this application. Anything else you wonder before? else you wonder before? Yeah, I mean if you think about this you Yeah, I mean if you think about this you know Rahul something you know I it has know Rahul something you know I it has been a big theme of mine throughout the been a big theme of mine throughout the last six months is you know this is a last six months is you know this is a win-win for the administration as bad as win-win for the administration as bad as that sounds. If you know, for whatever that sounds. If you know, for whatever reason, they're able to go through the reason, they're able to go through the removal process and the individual gets removal process and the individual gets removed, that accomplishes a goal of the removed, that accomplishes a goal of the administration. If it doesn't and all administration. If it doesn't and all they have is an increased statistic on they have is an increased statistic on arrest and how many people are in arrest and how many people are in removal proceedings, that also plays removal proceedings, that also plays well with the the the talking heads on well with the the the talking heads on the news uh that the administration the news uh that the administration likes to get on. So even if the removal likes to get on. So even if the removal fails in this case because the fails in this case because the individual, you know, the law allows individual, you know, the law allows this um then that still counts as a win this um then that still counts as a win in their book because they can go on the in their book because they can go on the news next week and be like we have x news next week and be like we have x number of people in removal proceedings. number of people in removal proceedings. It's an increase of 150% and Joe Biden It's an increase of 150% and Joe Biden wouldn't doing this. And that's that's, wouldn't doing this. And that's that's, you know, that's what they're trying to you know, that's what they're trying to to to do right now. to to do right now. One major problem I have Stephen is that One major problem I have Stephen is that I've seen some uh immigration judges got I've seen some uh immigration judges got fired recently as you know some of them fired recently as you know some of them are getting laid off. I don't know are getting laid off. I don't know what's the purpose for them to lay off what's the purpose for them to lay off when this demand for it. when this demand for it. I do tell I do tell Yeah. immigration judges are department Yeah. immigration judges are department of justice employees. They're not of justice employees. They're not article three judges. You know, when we article three judges. You know, when we go to federal court, we're in front of go to federal court, we're in front of an article 3 judge that the president an article 3 judge that the president nominated, the Senate, vetted, and nominated, the Senate, vetted, and confirmed for that position. The confirmed for that position. The immigration judges are uh Department of immigration judges are uh Department of Justice employees that have the title of Justice employees that have the title of immigration judge. They're immigration judge. They're administrative judges. All right? and administrative judges. All right? and they fired a bunch that were Biden they fired a bunch that were Biden hires, you know, or Obama uh hold over hires, you know, or Obama uh hold over so they can put in more of the people so they can put in more of the people that are going to be in line with the that are going to be in line with the current administration and their current administration and their thinking. So, you know, I I'm curious at thinking. So, you know, I I'm curious at what point do we call this a actual lack what point do we call this a actual lack of due process even though the INA of due process even though the INA allows it? uh because they're all kind allows it? uh because they're all kind of working together, you know, the JS's of working together, you know, the JS's and department of and uh uh the and department of and uh uh the immigration are working together on immigration are working together on these cases. But that's that's why these cases. But that's that's why they're firing these folks is to get out they're firing these folks is to get out people who might be friendly towards people who might be friendly towards immigrants. immigrants. immigrants. I wouldn't say friendly, at least they I wouldn't say friendly, at least they follow the law. follow the law. So true. So definitely um people who are So true. So definitely um people who are planning to file the cases even if you planning to file the cases even if you have been a clear case we definitely have been a clear case we definitely want you guys everybody to go through want you guys everybody to go through law firms without don't file by yourself law firms without don't file by yourself though um coming to the topic of notice though um coming to the topic of notice to appear I am we do have a daily to appear I am we do have a daily conference call where people can attend conference call where people can attend and there are a lot of people who are and there are a lot of people who are coming and they're very scared of this coming and they're very scared of this notice to appear as we were the first to notice to appear as we were the first to announce about one and a half month ago announce about one and a half month ago that the people who are uh on H1B who that the people who are uh on H1B who got laid off and who have either moved got laid off and who have either moved to H4 or move filed the B2 or filed the to H4 or move filed the B2 or filed the H-1B transfer or on adjustment of status H-1B transfer or on adjustment of status and in one case the person even left the and in one case the person even left the country they were been issued a notice country they were been issued a notice to appear even though they have taken to appear even though they have taken the corrective action within 60 days. the corrective action within 60 days. Now the people who got the notice to Now the people who got the notice to appear and the people who are getting appear and the people who are getting the notice to appear is less than you the notice to appear is less than you know it's about 2 to 3% of the people know it's about 2 to 3% of the people who are getting laid off. It's not like who are getting laid off. It's not like a mass scale going around everybody like a mass scale going around everybody like the way what happened with the student the way what happened with the student visa people where civ got terminated visa people where civ got terminated where anybody has any time any record where anybody has any time any record with the police they got their civ with the police they got their civ dominated uh we initially started dominated uh we initially started getting one two and then all of a sudden getting one two and then all of a sudden it just blew up but it's not happening it just blew up but it's not happening the same way with the NTA so a lot of the same way with the NTA so a lot of people ask the question what do I do to people ask the question what do I do to not get an NTA I mean there is nothing not get an NTA I mean there is nothing you can do even if you know The best you can do even if you know The best maybe is for you to leave the country maybe is for you to leave the country which I don't know if I were you I would which I don't know if I were you I would not do it the because legally you're not do it the because legally you're allowed to stay up to 60 days if you're allowed to stay up to 60 days if you're an NT4 is still valid even if the an NT4 is still valid even if the company withdraws H1B you can file a B2 company withdraws H1B you can file a B2 you can file a H4 you can file a H1B you can file a H4 you can file a H1B transfer within that 60 days absolutely transfer within that 60 days absolutely uh that is allowed but the notice to uh that is allowed but the notice to appear is getting issued now now it's appear is getting issued now now it's very expensive it's not easy to deal very expensive it's not easy to deal with the notice to appear the cases that with the notice to appear the cases that went to the uh immigration judges they went to the uh immigration judges they are dropping these notice to appear are dropping these notice to appear where the case is getting dismissed but where the case is getting dismissed but it's very expensive people ask me this it's very expensive people ask me this question how to avoid this one question how to avoid this one completely there is nothing you can do completely there is nothing you can do to avoid it to avoid it it's not spreading around go ahead it's not spreading around go ahead no the issue with this is everybody's no the issue with this is everybody's kind of in a catch22 situation when an kind of in a catch22 situation when an employee is terminated from a country employee is terminated from a country excuse me from a company uh the company excuse me from a company uh the company is required by Department of Labor is required by Department of Labor regulation to notify USCIS regulation to notify USCIS uh and USCIS automatically revokes the uh and USCIS automatically revokes the H1B. That is a mandatory process. And H1B. That is a mandatory process. And you know, for how many years has that you know, for how many years has that been not an issue? It's, you know, it been not an issue? It's, you know, it happens. The individual then is in their happens. The individual then is in their 60-day grace period. Uh but because they 60-day grace period. Uh but because they have the revocation of the petition, have the revocation of the petition, USCIS's system was flagging it. Now, I USCIS's system was flagging it. Now, I will say, Rahul, I mean, I think because will say, Rahul, I mean, I think because of some some of Emily uh Emily Newman's of some some of Emily uh Emily Newman's uh efforts here from our office, uh efforts here from our office, we've seen this slow down. I feel like we've seen this slow down. I feel like the last few that we've seen uh are the last few that we've seen uh are older. They're not like still getting uh older. They're not like still getting uh new ones. I didn't see any like from new ones. I didn't see any like from this past week that were issued this this past week that were issued this week. They were all mid July. Um and so week. They were all mid July. Um and so I do think that that might have helped. I do think that that might have helped. uh hopefully, you know, and she she uh hopefully, you know, and she she spent a lot of time on that spent a lot of time on that communicating with them. So, I applaud communicating with them. So, I applaud her efforts on this, but it is something her efforts on this, but it is something for people to still um be aware of as for people to still um be aware of as out there. out there. out there. Um Um Um um yes, definitely the USCIS did um yes, definitely the USCIS did respond. If anybody wants to support respond. If anybody wants to support what Emily has been doing by contacting what Emily has been doing by contacting the USCS, even if you're a victim or the USCS, even if you're a victim or not, we want you to go to rnlogroup.com. not, we want you to go to rnlogroup.com. She has put a very good information. So, She has put a very good information. So, as Steven has pointed out that it's not as Steven has pointed out that it's not spreading around, it's minimizing. There spreading around, it's minimizing. There are some oneoff cases we are seeing are some oneoff cases we are seeing right now. Um, so if I were the person right now. Um, so if I were the person who got laid off right now, I'm just 60 who got laid off right now, I'm just 60 days, I am not going to leave. I'm not days, I am not going to leave. I'm not telling what you have to do it because telling what you have to do it because sometimes it may affect you but I this sometimes it may affect you but I this is what I would do if I were you at this is what I would do if I were you at this point of time. Yeah. Um and um and and point of time. Yeah. Um and um and and and if there is any progress on that one and if there is any progress on that one we will let you know. Please keep tuning we will let you know. Please keep tuning into our YouTube so that we keep into our YouTube so that we keep updating every week what's going on. Now updating every week what's going on. Now Stephen, what are the records that the Stephen, what are the records that the USCS has? Do they have a records of the USCS has? Do they have a records of the payroll of the individuals? Do they have payroll of the individuals? Do they have the payroll records of the stem the payroll records of the stem extension people? Do they have the extension people? Do they have the payroll of the H-1B? Do they have the payroll of the H-1B? Do they have the payroll of the people who are in payroll of the people who are in adjustment of status by by the USCIS? adjustment of status by by the USCIS? I think that's certainly coming. I mean, I think that's certainly coming. I mean, look, uh, President Trump just fired the look, uh, President Trump just fired the IRS head, uh, partially because IRS head, uh, partially because they didn't want to turn over, uh, uh, they didn't want to turn over, uh, uh, payroll or excuse me, certain tax payroll or excuse me, certain tax records in order to, uh, to to records in order to, uh, to to immigration. Uh, I do think they have immigration. Uh, I do think they have access to those. Some of those are access to those. Some of those are reported to immigration, whether it's a reported to immigration, whether it's a request for evidence, you know, if uh request for evidence, you know, if uh company A received a request for company A received a request for evidence on ability to pay and submitted evidence on ability to pay and submitted their tax returns or gosh, I mean, they their tax returns or gosh, I mean, they might have submitted it with the H1B and might have submitted it with the H1B and submitted their tax returns. You better submitted their tax returns. You better believe that USCIS is probably keeping a believe that USCIS is probably keeping a record of it. So, I do think they have a record of it. So, I do think they have a record and if they don't have a record, record and if they don't have a record, they will. uh the administration is they will. uh the administration is trying very hard to get that record. trying very hard to get that record. I believe that when the first term of I believe that when the first term of the Trump administration, the court the Trump administration, the court wanted to get the records from the IRS wanted to get the records from the IRS of the Trump income tax returns. He of the Trump income tax returns. He fought tooth the nail for them not to be fought tooth the nail for them not to be given. But anyway, coming to the given. But anyway, coming to the immigration part though, he fired the immigration part though, he fired the IRS chief because he's not giving the IRS chief because he's not giving the records. I especially with the Palunteer records. I especially with the Palunteer software software software which have a lot of tentacles which we which have a lot of tentacles which we don't know what the legalities of them don't know what the legalities of them are. Uh and uh definitely I believe are. Uh and uh definitely I believe recently when I'm seeing RFS I believe recently when I'm seeing RFS I believe that they do have the IRS payroll that they do have the IRS payroll records. The USCS does have the payroll records. The USCS does have the payroll records. anytime. records. anytime. records. anytime. I always tell people with records, I always tell people with records, assume USCIS has it, right? Like they assume USCIS has it, right? Like they have way more information and access to have way more information and access to information than we think. Um I again, information than we think. Um I again, um if somebody's like, oh, you know, um if somebody's like, oh, you know, would they know if I my company would they know if I my company accidentally missed a paycheck, you accidentally missed a paycheck, you know, when I first started my STEM OPT? know, when I first started my STEM OPT? Uh would they know? Probably. Uh would they know? Probably. you know, so just um I assume my you know, so just um I assume my assumption is they have it. Sounds good. Let's go to the next one. Sounds good. Let's go to the next one. Dignity act. Why don't you update with Dignity act. Why don't you update with me what's in the Dignity Act, Stephen? me what's in the Dignity Act, Stephen? Yeah, the Dignity Act is a bipartisan Yeah, the Dignity Act is a bipartisan um uh bill. The Dignity Act of 2025 is a um uh bill. The Dignity Act of 2025 is a bipartisan bill between uh bipartisan bill between uh Representative Maria Salazar. She's a Representative Maria Salazar. She's a Republican out of Florida and uh Republican out of Florida and uh Representative Veronica Escobar, she's a Representative Veronica Escobar, she's a Democrat out of Texas. Now, I've had Democrat out of Texas. Now, I've had meetings with Representative Escobar's meetings with Representative Escobar's office before and I talked with uh uh office before and I talked with uh uh the staffer who helped write the Dignity the staffer who helped write the Dignity Act of 2023. Uh the Dignity Act of 2025 Act of 2023. Uh the Dignity Act of 2025 is a uh rehash of that with a little bit is a uh rehash of that with a little bit of changes. Now the dignity act um kind of changes. Now the dignity act um kind of creates three uh major functions. of creates three uh major functions. It's enforcement, It's enforcement, It's enforcement, family unity, and fixing the backlog. family unity, and fixing the backlog. Okay, are kind of the big things. And Okay, are kind of the big things. And there's some student and uh visa there's some student and uh visa reforms. Now, this is going to have reforms. Now, this is going to have mandatory e-verify for employers. mandatory e-verify for employers. They're going to be a new system and They're going to be a new system and higher penalties for E-Verify. uh higher penalties for E-Verify. uh there's going to be certain uh things to there's going to be certain uh things to help people that are uh married to US help people that are uh married to US citizens. Um but on the backlog because citizens. Um but on the backlog because I assume that's what a lot of our I assume that's what a lot of our listeners want to know is it creates listeners want to know is it creates kind of a system where uh the goal is to kind of a system where uh the goal is to eliminate the employment and family eliminate the employment and family based backlog by 2035. based backlog by 2035. Um this is going to be done a couple of Um this is going to be done a couple of ways. one uh increasing the cap from 7 ways. one uh increasing the cap from 7 to 15%. to 15%. to 15%. Uh so that's double. Uh it would also Uh so that's double. Uh it would also not count spouses uh and children uh for not count spouses uh and children uh for employmentbased employmentbased employmentbased green cards. Um and I'm not sure on the green cards. Um and I'm not sure on the family based side but but definitely for family based side but but definitely for the employment based side which the employment based side which realistically raises doubles the amount realistically raises doubles the amount of green cards issued. you know, right of green cards issued. you know, right now, uh, a family, typically the the now, uh, a family, typically the the primary individual is married. They primary individual is married. They typically have at least one kid, maybe typically have at least one kid, maybe two, maybe four. Um, and you know, two, maybe four. Um, and you know, everybody gets a green card and gets everybody gets a green card and gets counted. And that's a the big hurt on counted. And that's a the big hurt on the number of green cards available uh the number of green cards available uh each year. Uh but also what they do is each year. Uh but also what they do is create a uh processing type fee where if create a uh processing type fee where if you've been in the backlog for 10 or you've been in the backlog for 10 or more years, uh you can pay $20,000 to uh more years, uh you can pay $20,000 to uh get out of uh the backlog and get your get out of uh the backlog and get your green card issued. Uh right now, this green card issued. Uh right now, this bill Rahul is in its infancy. It's not bill Rahul is in its infancy. It's not even having debate or anything. It was even having debate or anything. It was introduced a little uh more than a introduced a little uh more than a month, a little less than a month ago. month, a little less than a month ago. Uh but it has 21 uh sponsors uh on it. Uh but it has 21 uh sponsors uh on it. This is a pretty solid divide between This is a pretty solid divide between Democrats and Republicans Democrats and Republicans uh because one of the interesting things uh because one of the interesting things is that it tries to do some bipartisan. is that it tries to do some bipartisan. We're going to be tough on the border, We're going to be tough on the border, tough on employing people who aren't tough on employing people who aren't authorized to work uh but also create authorized to work uh but also create some paths forward to improve our some paths forward to improve our system. Now, uh this is my position is system. Now, uh this is my position is people need to be contacting their people need to be contacting their representatives. Uh get in touch with representatives. Uh get in touch with them, advocate, advocate, advocate. Uh them, advocate, advocate, advocate. Uh but Rahul, uh you know, when I told you but Rahul, uh you know, when I told you the dignity act, I messaged you and I the dignity act, I messaged you and I said, "Oh, this is pretty cool." Uh you said, "Oh, this is pretty cool." Uh you you just threw cold water on me. you just threw cold water on me. I didn't study very much about the I didn't study very much about the dignity act. The reason uh Stephen is dignity act. The reason uh Stephen is that it's the Trump administration right that it's the Trump administration right now and right now the Congress uh the now and right now the Congress uh the House of Representatives is in the hands House of Representatives is in the hands of the uh Republicans and also the of the uh Republicans and also the Senate is in also in the hands of the Senate is in also in the hands of the Republicans and the president is Republicans and the president is anti-immigrant and uh you know that anti-immigrant and uh you know that Steven Miller who is the immigration Steven Miller who is the immigration adviser adviser adviser did not put his weight on this bell if did not put his weight on this bell if he would say Steven Miller comes and he would say Steven Miller comes and says is well let's pass this bill. I says is well let's pass this bill. I would definitely be interested jumping would definitely be interested jumping up on this one. uh and definitely this up on this one. uh and definitely this uh dignity act it's going to increase uh dignity act it's going to increase the numbers by more than double I would the numbers by more than double I would say because uh and and and definitely say because uh and and and definitely it's going to clear the backlog in less it's going to clear the backlog in less than 2 to 3 years significantly at least than 2 to 3 years significantly at least if not fully uh significantly two to if not fully uh significantly two to three years it's going to but I do doubt three years it's going to but I do doubt very sincerely that this is going to be very sincerely that this is going to be passed even if it's going to be passed passed even if it's going to be passed in what in house and senate very in what in house and senate very unlikely at this point of time I would unlikely at this point of time I would give this bill less than 1% chance and I give this bill less than 1% chance and I would not like my people to put all would not like my people to put all their efforts in this. That's my their efforts in this. That's my opinion. I know that you want people to opinion. I know that you want people to contact the congressman. That's your contact the congressman. That's your opinion, Stephen. opinion, Stephen. opinion, Stephen. Yeah, I don't I I don't think it's going Yeah, I don't I I don't think it's going to hurt anything. Um, you know, like I to hurt anything. Um, you know, like I said, I I've been part of some said, I I've been part of some organizations here in Houston, uh, that organizations here in Houston, uh, that have had meetings with representatives have had meetings with representatives and had one with Representative uh, and had one with Representative uh, Salazar. Um, I also have a meeting Salazar. Um, I also have a meeting coming up, I think next week, uh, with a coming up, I think next week, uh, with a another Texas Republican another Texas Republican um, and a New York Democrat that have um, and a New York Democrat that have kind of built their immigration platform kind of built their immigration platform that they've been trying to on the that they've been trying to on the businesses Bibles badges. That's what businesses Bibles badges. That's what uh, that congressman has told me he's uh, that congressman has told me he's building it on. Um, and it's kind of building it on. Um, and it's kind of trying to bring some uh, reform on both trying to bring some uh, reform on both sides. Um, so you know hopefully you sides. Um, so you know hopefully you know I will say this to the extent that know I will say this to the extent that reform is going to happen I do think reform is going to happen I do think there is a appetite for that in Congress there is a appetite for that in Congress because because because the system's messed up and I had the system's messed up and I had meetings with Democratic representatives meetings with Democratic representatives during the Biden administration who's during the Biden administration who's like this whole system's messed up and like this whole system's messed up and and and needs to be reformed. Um, and and and needs to be reformed. Um, and obviously Republicans have their obviously Republicans have their opinions too. Um, how much good we are opinions too. Um, how much good we are going to see is is going to be seen, but going to see is is going to be seen, but in order to get some of the numbers that in order to get some of the numbers that they would need, it is going to have to they would need, it is going to have to be a bipartisan effort and agreements be a bipartisan effort and agreements between multiple groups of people. So, between multiple groups of people. So, um, I agree, Rahul. not sitting there um, I agree, Rahul. not sitting there holding my uh breath on the dignity act, holding my uh breath on the dignity act, but make those phone calls, write those but make those phone calls, write those letters. I know we tell you that every letters. I know we tell you that every year. Um but it it doesn't hurt. And you year. Um but it it doesn't hurt. And you know, try to may maybe your letter does know, try to may maybe your letter does it. it. it. You never know. Sometimes the prior You never know. Sometimes the prior four, five years in the Trump four, five years in the Trump administration last time. Who knows? administration last time. Who knows? Things may happen. Um we go to Things may happen. Um we go to questions, Stephen, unless you have questions, Stephen, unless you have something else. No, I think uh I think something else. No, I think uh I think we'll we'll get to uh questions answer. we'll we'll get to uh questions answer. So, actually, real quick, u one of our So, actually, real quick, u one of our first questions, R I think does need a first questions, R I think does need a little bit of a discussion between you little bit of a discussion between you and me. The new uh child status and me. The new uh child status protection act uh interpretation by protection act uh interpretation by USCIS SISPA, uh I know you and Ryan did USCIS SISPA, uh I know you and Ryan did a really dang good video on that uh when a really dang good video on that uh when that was announced uh last week, but that was announced uh last week, but that was one of our first questions on that was one of our first questions on here is kind of how that works. So um here is kind of how that works. So um what's changed with SISPA? what's changed with SISPA? Um in the child service protection act Um in the child service protection act um previously they used to only consider um previously they used to only consider the final action date. Stephen there are the final action date. Stephen there are four things that need to be aligned at four things that need to be aligned at the same time. The final action date has the same time. The final action date has to be current. The I140 must have been to be current. The I140 must have been approved. The 485 must have been filed. approved. The 485 must have been filed. The child must be under 21. And of The child must be under 21. And of course any time period the I140 will be course any time period the I140 will be pending will be added or deducted. How pending will be added or deducted. How you you know how how you do it it's it's you you know how how you do it it's it's a different. So for example if the I140 a different. So for example if the I140 is pending for 6 months the child will is pending for 6 months the child will become 21 not when he becomes 21 he will become 21 not when he becomes 21 he will become 21 when he becomes 21 plus 6 become 21 when he becomes 21 plus 6 months. So in other words should be months. So in other words should be under suspect 21. 485 must be filed. PR under suspect 21. 485 must be filed. PR date has to be final action as it is to date has to be final action as it is to current and I140 must be approved. Now current and I140 must be approved. Now of course the Biden administration did of course the Biden administration did change saying that even if the filing change saying that even if the filing dates are current then the person's age dates are current then the person's age will be locked. Now Trump administration will be locked. Now Trump administration reversed it saying that it's going to be reversed it saying that it's going to be only final action dates. It's not going only final action dates. It's not going to be it's going it's not going to be to be it's going it's not going to be filing dates. However, uh the Trump filing dates. However, uh the Trump administration said only going forward. administration said only going forward. So the people who are already locked are So the people who are already locked are already locked. The people who are not already locked. The people who are not locked, uh for example, they will not locked, uh for example, they will not get locked going forward. So that's get locked going forward. So that's where the issue is. That's where the where the issue is. That's where the things have been changed right now. things have been changed right now. Yeah. And I can tell you that was a big Yeah. And I can tell you that was a big relief. Like when I saw that started relief. Like when I saw that started reading that announcement, I was like, reading that announcement, I was like, "Oh god, this is a mess." But at least "Oh god, this is a mess." But at least they committed to it's going to be for they committed to it's going to be for cases filed like after August 15th uh cases filed like after August 15th uh only. So anybody who's already filed and only. So anybody who's already filed and locked in doesn't need to uh stress. And locked in doesn't need to uh stress. And so that's the one positive. so that's the one positive. Uh Stephen, I want you to comment on Uh Stephen, I want you to comment on Yogi's Krish uh um comment from the ex Yogi's Krish uh um comment from the ex uh Twitter. uh is asking why don't you uh Twitter. uh is asking why don't you tell me about the next year lottery. tell me about the next year lottery. I don't have any details on it. Um now I don't have any details on it. Um now what we do know is that we should be what we do know is that we should be seeing a proposed regulation any time seeing a proposed regulation any time now. It has cleared the review for a now. It has cleared the review for a proposed regulation to be out uh to proposed regulation to be out uh to change how the H1B lottery is done. Uh change how the H1B lottery is done. Uh the H1B lottery is done with the the H1B lottery is done with the pre-registration in March. They run the pre-registration in March. They run the lottery the end of March. we get the 90 lottery the end of March. we get the 90 days to file the H-1B. Uh USCIS or in days to file the H-1B. Uh USCIS or in the first Trump administration tried the first Trump administration tried this rule and it sounds like they're this rule and it sounds like they're trying it again where um uh it's going trying it again where um uh it's going to power rank and that's kind of been to power rank and that's kind of been the best way to describe this higher the best way to describe this higher wages wages wages uh for for better chances in the uh for for better chances in the lottery. How that works in the system I lottery. How that works in the system I I don't know if it'll be weighted. How I don't know if it'll be weighted. How are they going to ensure compliance are they going to ensure compliance because you don't submit anything? I because you don't submit anything? I don't know. We'll see with the proposed don't know. We'll see with the proposed regulation. Uh that would be a major regulation. Uh that would be a major change. I would also expect it to be uh change. I would also expect it to be uh litigated, Rahul. It was litigated in litigated, Rahul. It was litigated in the first Trump administration. uh the the first Trump administration. uh the judge uh took the quite honestly easiest judge uh took the quite honestly easiest way out uh to get rid of the rule in way out uh to get rid of the rule in that at that time Chad Wolf who was the that at that time Chad Wolf who was the acting uh head of Homeland Security acting uh head of Homeland Security didn't have the proper authority to sign didn't have the proper authority to sign that regulation and so that's an easy that regulation and so that's an easy way out. Judges always like the easy way way out. Judges always like the easy way to get rid of a case, right? And so if to get rid of a case, right? And so if they can get rid of the rule because he they can get rid of the rule because he didn't have authority and a lot of didn't have authority and a lot of people had already ruled he didn't have people had already ruled he didn't have the authority to do that kind of thing. the authority to do that kind of thing. they don't have to get to the merits of they don't have to get to the merits of it because the INA Rahul says that H1Bs it because the INA Rahul says that H1Bs basically have to be issued uh for the basically have to be issued uh for the cap in the order in which they are cap in the order in which they are filed. Now, we know for years that's filed. Now, we know for years that's impossible. Uh and they've created the impossible. Uh and they've created the lottery. The lottery is a reasonable lottery. The lottery is a reasonable interpretation of that. I do not think interpretation of that. I do not think uh the wage power ranking is a uh the wage power ranking is a reasonable interpretation. I'm all for I reasonable interpretation. I'm all for I want people to get paid as much money as want people to get paid as much money as they can. Um that's that's great but I they can. Um that's that's great but I don't think it complies with the don't think it complies with the immigration and nationality act. Um immigration and nationality act. Um so according to your expectation it may so according to your expectation it may not become law the new regulations what not become law the new regulations what they propose it they propose it that's okay that's okay that's okay I don't think so but it is I don't think so but it is what is what is going to be in the what is what is going to be in the regulations according to your regulations according to your expectation as the USA is going to expectation as the USA is going to publish it publish it publish it you know I keep forgetting to go back you know I keep forgetting to go back and look at the old one um but I'm and look at the old one um but I'm because I'm curious on how they're going because I'm curious on how they're going to differentiate right like a level uh to differentiate right like a level uh two a level one wage in San Francisco is two a level one wage in San Francisco is like double uh the same job in Missouri, like double uh the same job in Missouri, right? You know, a level four wage in right? You know, a level four wage in Missouri is less than a level one in Los Missouri is less than a level one in Los Angeles. Um how they differentiate Angeles. Um how they differentiate between that and occupations, you know, between that and occupations, you know, maybe a uh individual who's at a startup maybe a uh individual who's at a startup is going to have a lower salary than is going to have a lower salary than somebody who's working at uh Facebook. somebody who's working at uh Facebook. Um, you know, I get the idea behind it. Um, you know, I get the idea behind it. You know, higher salary should should You know, higher salary should should govern, but that doesn't always mean the govern, but that doesn't always mean the most value. I mean, a doctor, right, in most value. I mean, a doctor, right, in a rural uh Waller County, Texas, uh, is a rural uh Waller County, Texas, uh, is not it provides good value uh, not it provides good value uh, differently than someone who has a level differently than someone who has a level four wage. And so, it's just something four wage. And so, it's just something we're going to see how it works out, how we're going to see how it works out, how they go through. I'm very curious on how they go through. I'm very curious on how they do this from a practical side like they do this from a practical side like put the law out of it how the practical put the law out of it how the practical side is because side is because right now we don't submit any right now we don't submit any documentation with the lottery. So do we documentation with the lottery. So do we have to submit an LCA? Well, what if have to submit an LCA? Well, what if companies amend, you know, right there companies amend, you know, right there on October 1st? You know, what do we do on October 1st? You know, what do we do then? And so I I'm curious to see what then? And so I I'm curious to see what the proposed regulation says uh that's the proposed regulation says uh that's going to combat those issues and still going to combat those issues and still keep the efficiency of the current H-1B keep the efficiency of the current H-1B lottery. lottery. lottery. Say is asking this question. He got the Say is asking this question. He got the green card last year. Is it advisable to green card last year. Is it advisable to work for two remote jobs? Uh I don't see work for two remote jobs? Uh I don't see anything wrong in it. In fact, when my anything wrong in it. In fact, when my wife got the green card, she started wife got the green card, she started working for eight companies at the same working for eight companies at the same time. uh especially in the healthcare time. uh especially in the healthcare industry, people do work for multiple industry, people do work for multiple companies at the same time. I don't see companies at the same time. I don't see anything wrong in you working two remote anything wrong in you working two remote jobs on GC. You already got the green jobs on GC. You already got the green card, so you're fine. No problem with card, so you're fine. No problem with that. You don't need to do any that. You don't need to do any paperwork. paperwork. paperwork. Um question about uh employers. Look, I Um question about uh employers. Look, I I can't I can't I can't speak to your specific situation, but if speak to your specific situation, but if your employer isn't paying your wage, your employer isn't paying your wage, you need to contact an immigration you need to contact an immigration attorney. attorney. attorney. Full stop. Full stop. Full stop. Um, question with regards to will there Um, question with regards to will there be any changes in the N400 for the be any changes in the N400 for the employmentbased applications? Well, at employmentbased applications? Well, at this point of time, we're not expecting this point of time, we're not expecting any changes. Don't give any suggestions any changes. Don't give any suggestions to the administration for the changes. to the administration for the changes. This question is from VBW but nothing is This question is from VBW but nothing is expected. One, we are noticing that a expected. One, we are noticing that a increased amount of people who are increased amount of people who are filing the N400 citizenship application filing the N400 citizenship application right now because of what's going on right now because of what's going on with the Trump administration. People with the Trump administration. People are not comfortable staying on the green are not comfortable staying on the green card. So we have seen increase in the card. So we have seen increase in the amount of people that are applying for amount of people that are applying for citizenship. But we haven't seen any citizenship. But we haven't seen any changes um in the citizenship changes um in the citizenship application especially for those people application especially for those people who got the green card through who got the green card through employment days. This is coming from VVM employment days. This is coming from VVM from YouTube. from YouTube. from YouTube. Uh question from uh Anchanta here on Uh question from uh Anchanta here on YouTube. Has a uh green card interview YouTube. Has a uh green card interview scheduled uh September 2025 at the rally scheduled uh September 2025 at the rally field office. Uh priority dates December field office. Uh priority dates December 2012 downgrade from EB3 has EB2 EB3. 2012 downgrade from EB3 has EB2 EB3. It's kind of, you know, our typical It's kind of, you know, our typical situation. Anything to be uh concerned situation. Anything to be uh concerned about? Uh Rahul, are you seeing any new about? Uh Rahul, are you seeing any new trends on on green card interviews? I trends on on green card interviews? I mean, I know I've I've done a few over mean, I know I've I've done a few over the years. I've talked to plenty of the years. I've talked to plenty of people. I haven't seen anything. Maybe people. I haven't seen anything. Maybe the officers like attitudes, they're a the officers like attitudes, they're a little bit more they're jerks, but little bit more they're jerks, but they're not changing adjudication. they're not changing adjudication. Yeah, they're they're kind of asking Yeah, they're they're kind of asking more questions with regards to how did more questions with regards to how did you get the job in general, but as as you get the job in general, but as as such, we have not seen any pecular such, we have not seen any pecular denials or RFS in the 485s though. In denials or RFS in the 485s though. In fact, I've been getting calls uh every fact, I've been getting calls uh every now and then that if the people who have now and then that if the people who have had a EB2 pending but their priority had a EB2 pending but their priority date is current in EB3. In fact, I just date is current in EB3. In fact, I just got off phone with a USC official. The got off phone with a USC official. The guy was asking me, hey, have your client guy was asking me, hey, have your client write a letter to me saying that please write a letter to me saying that please consider me in EB3. I'm going to approve consider me in EB3. I'm going to approve this case right now. That's what the this case right now. That's what the officer said. I just got off the phone. officer said. I just got off the phone. I just called the client immediately so I just called the client immediately so that he can just send a notice. Put it that he can just send a notice. Put it in the FedEx right now. He gave me the in the FedEx right now. He gave me the address and everything. So uh otherwise address and everything. So uh otherwise I haven't seen I mean our judications I haven't seen I mean our judications are going normally at this point of time are going normally at this point of time in employment based. in employment based. Yeah we've we've done you know I get Yeah we've we've done you know I get this question a lot Rahul when we do this question a lot Rahul when we do litigation on 485 delays like you know litigation on 485 delays like you know somebody says I have no clue if I'm I'm somebody says I have no clue if I'm I'm on EB2 or EB3. I did a downgrade to EB3 on EB2 or EB3. I did a downgrade to EB3 then I upgraded to EB2 then I did an then I upgraded to EB2 then I did an inner filing and another inner filing. inner filing and another inner filing. You know, the the way I kind of take it You know, the the way I kind of take it when I do my 485 delay lawsuits, Rahul when I do my 485 delay lawsuits, Rahul is I I kind of say that, you know, the is I I kind of say that, you know, the individual is current under one or both individual is current under one or both categories and they have approvals for categories and they have approvals for both categories and quite frankly, both categories and quite frankly, nobody really cares if they're EB2 or nobody really cares if they're EB2 or EB3. And so, uh, in those sometimes we EB3. And so, uh, in those sometimes we just get it. It's pretty just get it. It's pretty straightforward. Other times they'll straightforward. Other times they'll say, "Hey, we just need a tub letter, say, "Hey, we just need a tub letter, you know, transfer underlying basis you know, transfer underlying basis letter." But we've had good success with letter." But we've had good success with kind of working on that with um with kind of working on that with um with green cards uh in delay litigation. green cards uh in delay litigation. Um question uh from Kishure Bandar is Um question uh from Kishure Bandar is asking do you still advise people to asking do you still advise people to file H1, H4 and ED together? Um and file H1, H4 and ED together? Um and yeah, we still advise people to file it yeah, we still advise people to file it together. There are good number of cases together. There are good number of cases that are getting approved together. that are getting approved together. There are some cases that are not There are some cases that are not approving together for sure, but you approving together for sure, but you have more advantage uh more chances for have more advantage uh more chances for getting approval along with the H1B. So, getting approval along with the H1B. So, we still advise people to file H1 and H4 we still advise people to file H1 and H4 and get it together. and get it together. Yeah, I you know, we're we're I filed a Yeah, I you know, we're we're I filed a lawsuit on one of these. I mean, I'm lawsuit on one of these. I mean, I'm still seeing good trends, but um I need still seeing good trends, but um I need to get back to tracking it uh more uh to get back to tracking it uh more uh more for thoroughly. Uh question uh on more for thoroughly. Uh question uh on YouTube here. Are we seeing more 221g YouTube here. Are we seeing more 221g notices for H-1B interviews for notices for H-1B interviews for full-time employees or just third time full-time employees or just third time thirdparty clients? I had a call today thirdparty clients? I had a call today with an individual that has a 221g and with an individual that has a 221g and he has been pending for quite a while. he has been pending for quite a while. Uh and he is not a third party. Um I Uh and he is not a third party. Um I think they are doing more of them but I think they are doing more of them but I you know it's you know it's kind of to be expected. It's why we kind of to be expected. It's why we don't always recommend travel unless don't always recommend travel unless it's necessary. it's necessary. it's necessary. Same question is coming from Ashish. Is Same question is coming from Ashish. Is it risky traveling for stamping if you it risky traveling for stamping if you are scheduled to interview in October? are scheduled to interview in October? Absolutely Absolutely Absolutely risky. Now let me tell you one thing. If risky. Now let me tell you one thing. If you are going for stamping, what is my you are going for stamping, what is my advice? No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. advice? No. No. No. No. No. No. 13 times. No. It's uh No. No. No. 13 times. No. It's uh don't repeat I every single day I get a don't repeat I every single day I get a call I got a 221G I got this I got that call I got a 221G I got this I got that I got stuck in India why could not you I got stuck in India why could not you have told anything more stronger than have told anything more stronger than what you have already told I don't know what you have already told I don't know what to tell when I can't take a gun and what to tell when I can't take a gun and go to people and tell them not to go for go to people and tell them not to go for interviews not to go for visa standing I interviews not to go for visa standing I wish I could if they allow me wish I could if they allow me to exempt me I probably will go with a to exempt me I probably will go with a gun but it's not allowed legally to do gun but it's not allowed legally to do that. If it is, I will. that. If it is, I will. Yeah, it it's definitely tough. I hate Yeah, it it's definitely tough. I hate having that conversation, but I do having that conversation, but I do think, you know, there is a risk and think, you know, there is a risk and whether it gets delayed. Like I said, I whether it gets delayed. Like I said, I just talked to an individual today. His just talked to an individual today. His has been pended for 18 months in has been pended for 18 months in administrative processing. Uh whether administrative processing. Uh whether they deny it, uh there's not a lot we they deny it, uh there's not a lot we can do when denials at of visas occur. can do when denials at of visas occur. Um, and and by the way, the F1 students, Um, and and by the way, the F1 students, Rahul, I'm hearing a lot of visa denials Rahul, I'm hearing a lot of visa denials on them, you know. Uh, so try try to on them, you know. Uh, so try try to avoid it. Um, if you can because we just avoid it. Um, if you can because we just we can't sue on visa denials. We just we can't sue on visa denials. We just can't can't can't and we we do see every single day denial and we we do see every single day denial in the consulate or 221 GC. problem with in the consulate or 221 GC. problem with the 221GC is that by the time they get the 221GC is that by the time they get cleared by that you lose the job and we cleared by that you lose the job and we tell people withdraw your H1B tell people withdraw your H1B application you don't have the job application you don't have the job anymore so you can't come on that time anymore so you can't come on that time because then they're going to deny it so because then they're going to deny it so we tell people to withdraw their we tell people to withdraw their applications so definitely not a good applications so definitely not a good time now the other thing right now what time now the other thing right now what Stephen has pointed out was that the Stephen has pointed out was that the immigration judges got fired immigration judges got fired because they were giving the proper because they were giving the proper judgment. Now think of this one. What judgment. Now think of this one. What would happen to the council officer who would happen to the council officer who are giving the visas? are giving the visas? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And that's how the situation is Yeah. And that's how the situation is right now. And people ask the question, right now. And people ask the question, why would they deny a full-time job? I why would they deny a full-time job? I got a salary of $150,000. got a salary of $150,000. I got a job with a fang top company in I got a job with a fang top company in the United States. Well, simple. They're the United States. Well, simple. They're jealous. jealous. jealous. Look at what Steven Miller is telling. Look at what Steven Miller is telling. Look into what mega pack of the uh uh Look into what mega pack of the uh uh mega that's the organization that is in mega that's the organization that is in support of the Trump administration that support of the Trump administration that how they come into power. What they how they come into power. What they saying is that uh that these uh Indians saying is that uh that these uh Indians should not be hired Americans need to be should not be hired Americans need to be hired and that's what they are telling hired and that's what they are telling uh the reasons. So definitely they are uh the reasons. So definitely they are jealous and they don't want to give an jealous and they don't want to give an approval because of your high salary. Um approval because of your high salary. Um that's that that's that's how the that's that that's that's how the administration is. So be careful administration is. So be careful when to choose to go for strapping. when to choose to go for strapping. Yeah. And obviously things happen. Yeah. And obviously things happen. Obviously if you have a legitimate Obviously if you have a legitimate immigration reason, you know, if you've immigration reason, you know, if you've got a denial, we're not telling you to got a denial, we're not telling you to hang out in the US unlawfully. Like hang out in the US unlawfully. Like don't do that. Um, you know, but I, you don't do that. Um, you know, but I, you know, gosh, Rahul, I think if I had a know, gosh, Rahul, I think if I had a dollar for the amount of people there, dollar for the amount of people there, so my visa stamps expired, so I'm going so my visa stamps expired, so I'm going to travel to get it renewed. Like, to travel to get it renewed. Like, please don't uh please don't do that. please don't uh please don't do that. And then, you know, Rahul has a little And then, you know, Rahul has a little different view than I do. Like, I different view than I do. Like, I understand people with family needs, you understand people with family needs, you know, I get it. You got to make that know, I get it. You got to make that informed decision at some point. What informed decision at some point. What What is the risk um to you if you get What is the risk um to you if you get stuck abroad uh to go to to a funeral or stuck abroad uh to go to to a funeral or something? And I know that sucks. I hate something? And I know that sucks. I hate having that conversation, but a lot of having that conversation, but a lot of risks involved. risks involved. risks involved. Is asking this question from YouTube. Is asking this question from YouTube. Uh, he got a speeding ticket at a school Uh, he got a speeding ticket at a school zone. Uh, Tesla autopilot. zone. Uh, Tesla autopilot. Bad luck. I'm a big fan of Tesla. Um, Bad luck. I'm a big fan of Tesla. Um, but the just he has paid the penalty. but the just he has paid the penalty. And will that cause any problem for the And will that cause any problem for the USC uh immigration process or USC uh immigration process or citizenship process? absolutely will not citizenship process? absolutely will not cause any problem. We what we have seen cause any problem. We what we have seen people where the things like small people where the things like small speeding tickets that got into trouble speeding tickets that got into trouble are when you neglect it. If you contest are when you neglect it. If you contest it and you get dismissed, I'm fine with it and you get dismissed, I'm fine with it. If you pay it, you get dismissed it. it. If you pay it, you get dismissed it. That's fine. But if there is a speeding That's fine. But if there is a speeding ticket or some ticket given to you and ticket or some ticket given to you and you do not respond to it, you ignore it, you do not respond to it, you ignore it, then you get an arrest warrant that gets then you get an arrest warrant that gets into the record, then you have to report into the record, then you have to report it everywhere. But if it's just a it everywhere. But if it's just a speeding small speeding ticket like speeding small speeding ticket like yours and you already paid or you yours and you already paid or you challenged and got it dismissed, either challenged and got it dismissed, either way, it is fine. It's not going to cause way, it is fine. It's not going to cause any problem. any problem. any problem. Question. Um, I just saw here uh where Question. Um, I just saw here uh where is it? Oh, Global Entry. Uh, is it is it? Oh, Global Entry. Uh, is it advisable to go to an interview for advisable to go to an interview for Global Entry? I have not had any issues Global Entry? I have not had any issues with Global Entry. Um, when you get with Global Entry. Um, when you get called in, I by the way forgot mine had called in, I by the way forgot mine had expired, so you know, just uh and expired, so you know, just uh and renewed it when I needed my uh renewed it when I needed my uh pre-check. Um, pre-check. Um, pre-check. Um, when you go through, they conditionally when you go through, they conditionally approve it and then you can schedule the approve it and then you can schedule the interview. So, typically you don't have interview. So, typically you don't have an issue when you do the interview. When an issue when you do the interview. When I did mine, it was like a quick little I did mine, it was like a quick little 10-minute thing. I spent more time 10-minute thing. I spent more time trying to find parking at the dang trying to find parking at the dang airport. Uh, so you should be fine airport. Uh, so you should be fine there. Uh, do you have an arrest warrant there. Uh, do you have an arrest warrant out? Maybe don't go. Um, so yeah, I I I out? Maybe don't go. Um, so yeah, I I I think you should be fine though. think you should be fine though. Saying that I'm not driving. It's that Saying that I'm not driving. It's that autopilot that drive. Yeah, but that's autopilot that drive. Yeah, but that's either way. Uh, you are responsible for either way. Uh, you are responsible for the autopilot at this point of time, the autopilot at this point of time, guys. Uh so since you are sitting on the guys. Uh so since you are sitting on the wheel uh you are responsible for it. wheel uh you are responsible for it. You're supposed to control it. Uh so You're supposed to control it. Uh so don't argue that very much. Just say don't argue that very much. Just say that I did a mistake. That's always that I did a mistake. That's always better. better. better. Yeah. I've never you know had issues Yeah. I've never you know had issues with people with traffic tickets. You with people with traffic tickets. You know the people we have like you said know the people we have like you said the extreme like going 70 miles an hour the extreme like going 70 miles an hour in a school zone. Yeah. Probably. But if in a school zone. Yeah. Probably. But if you weren't put in handcuffs, you you're you weren't put in handcuffs, you you're probably fine for anything moving probably fine for anything moving forward. forward. forward. Unless Elon becomes an enemy of the Unless Elon becomes an enemy of the state, Rahul, and then Tesla's, you state, Rahul, and then Tesla's, you know. know. know. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Uh I bought Tesla in 2018, so I'm pretty Uh I bought Tesla in 2018, so I'm pretty aware of it. Big fan of Tesla, aware of it. Big fan of Tesla, but still it is your responsibility if but still it is your responsibility if you have gone over the speed limit, you have gone over the speed limit, guys. guys. guys. Um Um Um question. question. question. Go ahead. You go ahead. Go ahead. You go ahead. Question from Shereas. H-1B extension Question from Shereas. H-1B extension filed uh before I94 expired. H1B uh filed uh before I94 expired. H1B uh extension was denied 120 days after the extension was denied 120 days after the uh I94 expire expiration. Uh left the uh I94 expire expiration. Uh left the US. Uh later H1B and green card uh was US. Uh later H1B and green card uh was approved. I guess that was the I140. approved. I guess that was the I140. Will I have issues at the port of entry Will I have issues at the port of entry due to overstay? Um not typically. I due to overstay? Um not typically. I mean, you are in a period of authorized mean, you are in a period of authorized stay during that 120 days. Um, and you stay during that 120 days. Um, and you got the visa later. Uh, you should be got the visa later. Uh, you should be totally fine. It's it's never been an totally fine. It's it's never been an issue in the past. issue in the past. Stan is asking the question, he recently Stan is asking the question, he recently got the green card about a month ago and got the green card about a month ago and he wants to quit the job. Will it affect he wants to quit the job. Will it affect the naturalization? Absolutely the naturalization? Absolutely not. You I mean when I said is that you not. You I mean when I said is that you can quit the job, it will not affect can quit the job, it will not affect your citizenship at all. Even though you your citizenship at all. Even though you got the green card one month ago, it got the green card one month ago, it will not. And will this be any problem will not. And will this be any problem for you to travel if we get the job? for you to travel if we get the job? Absolutely not a problem for you to Absolutely not a problem for you to travel. travel. travel. Uh, good question here from Adam on Uh, good question here from Adam on YouTube. H1B was approved recently, but YouTube. H1B was approved recently, but I'm not planning to go get it stamped I'm not planning to go get it stamped right now. Is there any problem if I right now. Is there any problem if I don't get it stamped? What about when I don't get it stamped? What about when I have to renew? So, if you have never have to renew? So, if you have never been counted against the H-1B cap, been counted against the H-1B cap, meaning you know, you go through the meaning you know, you go through the lottery um and you don't get the change lottery um and you don't get the change of status approved, uh then you do have of status approved, uh then you do have to get the visa stamp in order to to get the visa stamp in order to activate it. But if we're talking about activate it. But if we're talking about your extension or you got the change of your extension or you got the change of status approved or whatever, uh no status approved or whatever, uh no issues at all. You don't have to have issues at all. You don't have to have it. The visa in your passport, the visa it. The visa in your passport, the visa foil is what it's called, is only needed foil is what it's called, is only needed to enter the US. That is your approval to enter the US. That is your approval to seek permission to enter the US. What to seek permission to enter the US. What you have when you stay in the US is the you have when you stay in the US is the I94. That's what governs your visa could I94. That's what governs your visa could have expired 20 years ago. As long as have expired 20 years ago. As long as you have maintained your status and had you have maintained your status and had an I94, you are totally fine. You just an I94, you are totally fine. You just have to get it if you travel. have to get it if you travel. We we know there's this question from We we know there's this question from YouTube that he got an I140 approval and YouTube that he got an I140 approval and the SOC code says 000000 the SOC code says 000000 will cause any problem at any point of will cause any problem at any point of time in extending the H1B or u we have time in extending the H1B or u we have noticed that in couple of I140s I don't noticed that in couple of I140s I don't see that it will cause any problem see that it will cause any problem whatsoever at all for you to extend the whatsoever at all for you to extend the H1B use it for H4 put the date to some H1B use it for H4 put the date to some other company I don't see that a problem other company I don't see that a problem at all question from ready are when I at all question from ready are when I change my employer My previous employer change my employer My previous employer kept the original I140 approval with kept the original I140 approval with their attorney. Could you please advise their attorney. Could you please advise me how to guess best obtain the physical me how to guess best obtain the physical original copy? This Mr. Ready, you don't original copy? This Mr. Ready, you don't need the original I140 approval for any need the original I140 approval for any purposes of approval at all. If you have purposes of approval at all. If you have a copy of it, that is good enough. You a copy of it, that is good enough. You don't have to worry about I140 approval. don't have to worry about I140 approval. Now, in our office, we just keep a scan Now, in our office, we just keep a scan copies and throw them out. I mean, why copies and throw them out. I mean, why do we need it? You don't need a original do we need it? You don't need a original I140 approval for any purposes, though. I140 approval for any purposes, though. Uh, you have a copy, you're good. Uh, you have a copy, you're good. And if you don't have a copy, you can And if you don't have a copy, you can always file a FOYA request, Freedom of always file a FOYA request, Freedom of Information Act, online. Uh, Ryan Wil Information Act, online. Uh, Ryan Wil from our office wrote a good article from our office wrote a good article about that. It's pretty easy to do. But about that. It's pretty easy to do. But Rahul's right. Right. I think I was like Rahul's right. Right. I think I was like practicing for two years when I ever practicing for two years when I ever like knew people actually wanted the like knew people actually wanted the I140 approval because we had like a I140 approval because we had like a stack of in our office because it's the stack of in our office because it's the uh the the scan is totally fine uh the the scan is totally fine and and and um even if people give the and and and um even if people give the original certificates I mean USCS is not original certificates I mean USCS is not going to believe them. They always check going to believe them. They always check in their database to if it's original or in their database to if it's original or not. Um here is an interesting question not. Um here is an interesting question that is coming out with regards to the that is coming out with regards to the uh people who uh uh who are unauthorized uh people who uh uh who are unauthorized working on F1 getting married to US working on F1 getting married to US citizen. Definitely we need to be very citizen. Definitely we need to be very careful whether we should file the careful whether we should file the application timing the application application timing the application um uh definitely it may be transferred um uh definitely it may be transferred to the immigration court and back. So to the immigration court and back. So you need to be prepared for all those you need to be prepared for all those things when you're filing the 48 things when you're filing the 48 application. application. application. And another, you know, thing to, you And another, you know, thing to, you know, think about is know, think about is if you can go do the margarita visa and if you can go do the margarita visa and come back in, you know, if your visa is come back in, you know, if your visa is still valid, um, cure the defect by still valid, um, cure the defect by traveling, coming back in, and then, you traveling, coming back in, and then, you know, look at from your last entry, have know, look at from your last entry, have you maintained status? So, I wouldn't go you maintained status? So, I wouldn't go for visa stamping in this situation, but for visa stamping in this situation, but um if you've got a valid visa, you could um if you've got a valid visa, you could do the margarita visa that Rahul, you do the margarita visa that Rahul, you know, loves loves to talk about. Um you know, loves loves to talk about. Um you know, cure the defect that way. know, cure the defect that way. Yeah, it's something that should be Yeah, it's something that should be considered. considered. considered. Okay, Okay, Okay, I'm trying to find I'm trying to find Abish has this very interesting Abish has this very interesting question. He's about to reach the E question. He's about to reach the E seventh year on EB1C. His priority date seventh year on EB1C. His priority date is March 2024. Of course, he cannot file is March 2024. Of course, he cannot file the 485 because in is an Indian national the 485 because in is an Indian national and the prior date is not current. What and the prior date is not current. What are the forces of action? Definitely if are the forces of action? Definitely if you you uh you can think about filing an you you uh you can think about filing an H1B in the lottery. That's if you have H1B in the lottery. That's if you have not completed six years, that's not completed six years, that's something that can be done. Um, one something that can be done. Um, one thing Abhishek that I want you to be thing Abhishek that I want you to be very careful right now is to be in good very careful right now is to be in good terms with the company though because terms with the company though because even if you max out on seven years, if even if you max out on seven years, if you move out to a different statuses, if you move out to a different statuses, if your company does not cooperate, then your company does not cooperate, then you won't get the green card eventually you won't get the green card eventually though. Now there are ways where you can though. Now there are ways where you can get transferred back to your home get transferred back to your home country, still stick with the same country, still stick with the same company and then still get the green company and then still get the green card. either you get the green card in card. either you get the green card in India, you come back again on L1 and get India, you come back again on L1 and get the green card though. So one thing I the green card though. So one thing I want to pay very good attention is to be want to pay very good attention is to be in good terms with the company then look in good terms with the company then look into the alternative things whether H1B into the alternative things whether H1B changing to F1 changing to uh B2 for a changing to F1 changing to uh B2 for a while. Uh B2 may not be good option. while. Uh B2 may not be good option. it's only 6 months that is available or it's only 6 months that is available or going back to your home country or any going back to your home country or any place with the same company and coming place with the same company and coming back maybe the best option is to go back maybe the best option is to go outside the country because to be in outside the country because to be in good terms with the company so that you good terms with the company so that you can come back and get get the green card can come back and get get the green card or even get the green card in United or even get the green card in United outside the country. Uh Ro, we have a outside the country. Uh Ro, we have a lot of questions on priority dates. You lot of questions on priority dates. You know, when is F2A going to become know, when is F2A going to become current? When is EB1 going to become to current? When is EB1 going to become to 2017? Uh y'all are barking up the wrong 2017? Uh y'all are barking up the wrong tree. Rahul and I are not uh able to tree. Rahul and I are not uh able to guess the visa bulletin. Now I can tell guess the visa bulletin. Now I can tell you um probably next month we should you um probably next month we should have the October 2025 visa bulletin and have the October 2025 visa bulletin and that'll give us a good look ahead at that'll give us a good look ahead at fiscal year 2026. The government runs a fiscal year 2026. The government runs a uh uh October 1st to September 30th uh uh October 1st to September 30th fiscal year. and October 1st each year fiscal year. and October 1st each year is where we see the biggest movement on is where we see the biggest movement on uh forward on the visa bulletin. At that uh forward on the visa bulletin. At that time, you know, Emily in our office is time, you know, Emily in our office is she's good with numbers. She'll look at she's good with numbers. She'll look at the inventory and how much it's moved the inventory and how much it's moved and we might be able to make a little and we might be able to make a little bit of predictions on this, but um it's bit of predictions on this, but um it's really hard uh to predict the visa really hard uh to predict the visa bulletin. I have no idea uh what date, bulletin. I have no idea uh what date, you know, what USCIS is working with on you know, what USCIS is working with on all this. So I'm sorry we're not all this. So I'm sorry we're not touching base on all your questions. I'm touching base on all your questions. I'm hoping we see some good progression hoping we see some good progression though. Um especially for the people uh who are Um especially for the people uh who are a 2017 Indian national CB20B3. It's a 2017 Indian national CB20B3. It's definitely not coming next year. I definitely not coming next year. I you know I've talked with a lot of folks you know I've talked with a lot of folks Rahul on this. you know, not just Rahul on this. you know, not just attorneys in our office, but outside. attorneys in our office, but outside. You know, this is where, you know, if You know, this is where, you know, if you qualify for EB1, whether it's EB1A, you qualify for EB1, whether it's EB1A, B, or C, that might be something to kind B, or C, that might be something to kind of help, especially, you know, as things of help, especially, you know, as things don't progress. EB5 is still current for don't progress. EB5 is still current for everybody uh on the set aides. I don't everybody uh on the set aides. I don't know how long that's going to stay that know how long that's going to stay that way. Um I know, look, that's a huge uh way. Um I know, look, that's a huge uh investment, but it is is something investment, but it is is something that's out there. So, um, you know, that's out there. So, um, you know, don't don't get pigeonholed. Uh, look at don't don't get pigeonholed. Uh, look at some options. And, um, you know, with some options. And, um, you know, with with EB5, there were some changes in the with EB5, there were some changes in the law that allow you to use loans, use, law that allow you to use loans, use, uh, like a home equity loan, especially uh, like a home equity loan, especially with housing prices going up or a bank with housing prices going up or a bank loan or something like that. So, take a loan or something like that. So, take a look at EB5 potentially. look at EB5 potentially. Um, questions with regards to this Um, questions with regards to this question is coming from Gao from question is coming from Gao from YouTube. is asking the question for the YouTube. is asking the question for the people who already have the passport people who already have the passport stamping do you see any pro on the H1B stamping do you see any pro on the H1B he's speaking about do you see if people he's speaking about do you see if people are traveling are you seeing any problem are traveling are you seeing any problem on No we're not seeing any problem if on No we're not seeing any problem if the H1B approval is already stamped the H1B approval is already stamped unless there is something specific about unless there is something specific about you that is standing out about your you that is standing out about your criminal record or anything that is very criminal record or anything that is very odd otherwise normally we don't see any odd otherwise normally we don't see any problem in people traveling outside the problem in people traveling outside the country a little bit more scrutiny but country a little bit more scrutiny but general general general 99% of the people are get going through 99% of the people are get going through very smoothly. very smoothly. very smoothly. Yeah. There there was a rumor Rahul Yeah. There there was a rumor Rahul about like an Instagram post or about like an Instagram post or something where a lady was denied entry something where a lady was denied entry because she had worked in India. Um and because she had worked in India. Um and and I have heard from one attorney that and I have heard from one attorney that had issues at the consulate and then had issues at the consulate and then they contacted Legal Net and that was they contacted Legal Net and that was cleared up. I just had a client that had cleared up. I just had a client that had to go overseas in April unexpectedly uh to go overseas in April unexpectedly uh because of a family emergency. because of a family emergency. um worked from India and he came in last um worked from India and he came in last week, didn't even get asked about it. We week, didn't even get asked about it. We had prepared a letter kind of explaining had prepared a letter kind of explaining what happened. Um I I think that's a what happened. Um I I think that's a rumor or a bad experience with an rumor or a bad experience with an officer. There is nothing that prevents officer. There is nothing that prevents people from working outside the US. Um people from working outside the US. Um but you know this interpretation of oh but you know this interpretation of oh it's not on your LCA to work in India. it's not on your LCA to work in India. Well, like of course not. You can't list Well, like of course not. You can't list foreign addresses on the LCA. So, um, foreign addresses on the LCA. So, um, that that's either uneducated officers, that that's either uneducated officers, but that's I've heard one rumor, uh, but that's I've heard one rumor, uh, Rahul and I just had a guy come in who Rahul and I just had a guy come in who was gone from early April until last was gone from early April until last week and he didn't have any issues. week and he didn't have any issues. It's just uh, I don't know if the lawyer It's just uh, I don't know if the lawyer has any clue what she's speaking about. has any clue what she's speaking about. I looked into the post that she posted. I looked into the post that she posted. She's telling that a person cannot work She's telling that a person cannot work without LCA in India. Well, you know without LCA in India. Well, you know what? If you're working in India, you what? If you're working in India, you don't come under the USCIS guidelines. don't come under the USCIS guidelines. The USCIS guidelines only work until the The USCIS guidelines only work until the borders of United States. And India is borders of United States. And India is not the border of United States. Even not the border of United States. Even though Trump is trying to include uh though Trump is trying to include uh Canada and Greenland, that's a different Canada and Greenland, that's a different issue. But definitely India is not on issue. But definitely India is not on his menu. his menu. his menu. And and when you when you are in India, And and when you when you are in India, you are an Indian. Can an Indian work in you are an Indian. Can an Indian work in India? Uh I also happen to have an India? Uh I also happen to have an Indian law license. I can say fairly Indian law license. I can say fairly simply you can work in India. Any simply you can work in India. Any national can work in their own home national can work in their own home countries. I don't know of any nation countries. I don't know of any nation that does say that you cannot work in that does say that you cannot work in their home country though. So India is a their home country though. So India is a similar they allow people to work in similar they allow people to work in their home country. Absolutely not a their home country. Absolutely not a problem. You don't come under any problem. You don't come under any jurisdiction of USCIS. You don't come jurisdiction of USCIS. You don't come under immigration customs enforcement. under immigration customs enforcement. If you are an Indian, you are working If you are an Indian, you are working remotely into USA. you are allowed to remotely into USA. you are allowed to work. Absolutely not a problem. And that work. Absolutely not a problem. And that one person who was got denied, we one person who was got denied, we offered a free consultation. Nobody came offered a free consultation. Nobody came to us. That person got denied because he to us. That person got denied because he worked for 60 days. That is not true at worked for 60 days. That is not true at all. And Stephen has pointed out clearly all. And Stephen has pointed out clearly that his client came in. No problem that his client came in. No problem after 4 months that he worked outside after 4 months that he worked outside the country. the country. the country. Yeah. Last time I heard Parliament and Yeah. Last time I heard Parliament and and and President Modi hadn't uh adopted and and President Modi hadn't uh adopted the US immigration and nationality act the US immigration and nationality act and I did see here that Abu Dhabi is and I did see here that Abu Dhabi is strictly warning that longer stay in strictly warning that longer stay in India um H1Bs for working in the US. You India um H1Bs for working in the US. You can't work for a long time outside the can't work for a long time outside the US. Like those officers are morons. I I US. Like those officers are morons. I I I don't know how to say that in a nicer I don't know how to say that in a nicer way. I mean they're absolutely way. I mean they're absolutely incorrect. when you are outside of the incorrect. when you are outside of the United States, the H-1B, you're you're United States, the H-1B, you're you're not on H-1B anymore. So, yeah, the H-1B not on H-1B anymore. So, yeah, the H-1B is for working in the US, but there is is for working in the US, but there is nothing in the Immigration and nothing in the Immigration and Nationality Act or any regulation or any Nationality Act or any regulation or any interpretation of the statute or interpretation of the statute or regulation. I know I've heard the rumor regulation. I know I've heard the rumor about Abu Dhabi, too, but uh avoid Abu about Abu Dhabi, too, but uh avoid Abu Dhabi, I guess, but um I don't I've not Dhabi, I guess, but um I don't I've not seen this. Like I said, I just had an seen this. Like I said, I just had an individual come in um and those officers individual come in um and those officers if they're doing it are just flat out if they're doing it are just flat out wrong. wrong. wrong. Question that is coming on. I got a GC Question that is coming on. I got a GC uh recently but uh the project ended uh recently but uh the project ended right now. Can I go to India and come right now. Can I go to India and come back? Will there be any problem? Since back? Will there be any problem? Since you got the green card, you are not an you got the green card, you are not an H-1B. You're not an advanced parole. If H-1B. You're not an advanced parole. If you lose a job, you will be perfectly you lose a job, you will be perfectly all right. Absolutely not a problem. In all right. Absolutely not a problem. In fact, it's a time when you don't have fact, it's a time when you don't have anything to visit India and stay for a anything to visit India and stay for a long period of time and you don't have a long period of time and you don't have a job. That's a free period that you got. job. That's a free period that you got. I don't see any problem. Now, this is I don't see any problem. Now, this is only I'm telling for the green card only I'm telling for the green card holders. Would I tell the same thing for holders. Would I tell the same thing for H1B who lose a job? Absolutely not. Will H1B who lose a job? Absolutely not. Will I tell the same thing for the people who I tell the same thing for the people who are in adjustment of status and they are are in adjustment of status and they are the primary applicant? No. You need to the primary applicant? No. You need to check with a lawyer before you travel check with a lawyer before you travel outside the country. If you're an F1 opt outside the country. If you're an F1 opt or ST extension, you don't have a job. I or ST extension, you don't have a job. I definitely tell people not to travel. definitely tell people not to travel. Since you are a green card holder, I Since you are a green card holder, I don't see any problem in your traveling. don't see any problem in your traveling. Absolutely not a problem. This message Absolutely not a problem. This message is for SA from YouTube. Um, Um, Um, let's see here. Um, okay. Good question let's see here. Um, okay. Good question here. I see this a lot from Lockman here here. I see this a lot from Lockman here on YouTube. Applied for H4 EAD. Yes. Or on YouTube. Applied for H4 EAD. Yes. Or starting October 13th. H4 approved starting October 13th. H4 approved yesterday. Unsure if it's active or from yesterday. Unsure if it's active or from October 13. Can I keep working on my October 13. Can I keep working on my current H1B or should I stop? Um uh Ro, current H1B or should I stop? Um uh Ro, I'm curious your thoughts on this. My I'm curious your thoughts on this. My thought has always been the online case thought has always been the online case status doesn't mean anything. Uh in status doesn't mean anything. Uh in fact, USCIS, I think, used to have a fact, USCIS, I think, used to have a disclaimer that said it has no like disclaimer that said it has no like legal uh value. So until you get the legal uh value. So until you get the approval notice, you know, the what I approval notice, you know, the what I tell people is that yes, you have tell people is that yes, you have constructive notice uh that your HR has constructive notice uh that your HR has been approved, but and so maybe you been approved, but and so maybe you should start taking steps to to to should start taking steps to to to accommodate that change, but you don't accommodate that change, but you don't know was the I94 granted was it from know was the I94 granted was it from October 13th yesterday? The only thing October 13th yesterday? The only thing that governs is the actual approval. The that governs is the actual approval. The online thing is just a tool to help you online thing is just a tool to help you track your case. It has no uh legal track your case. It has no uh legal consequence and I've never had anybody consequence and I've never had anybody face issues. Um you know, if you get the face issues. Um you know, if you get the approval on Friday and it says it approval on Friday and it says it started today, uh and you kept working started today, uh and you kept working until Friday, I've never had anybody until Friday, I've never had anybody face that issue because they didn't get face that issue because they didn't get it into the mail. Uh and that's what it into the mail. Uh and that's what actually governs from a legal actually governs from a legal perspective. perspective. perspective. Nick has an interesting question. His Nick has an interesting question. His wife has an H-1B which is approved but wife has an H-1B which is approved but visa is not stamped. Um but she has an visa is not stamped. Um but she has an advanced parole. Can she travel advanced advanced parole. Can she travel advanced parole and come back without any parole and come back without any problem? problem? problem? Absolutely. She has an advanced parole Absolutely. She has an advanced parole which is valid. She can travel. She which is valid. She can travel. She doesn't need to go for H1B stamping. I doesn't need to go for H1B stamping. I advise people not to go for H1B stamping advise people not to go for H1B stamping in this particular instant because she in this particular instant because she is an advanced parole. She can come is an advanced parole. She can come back. When she comes back, her H-1B is back. When she comes back, her H-1B is still valid. She can still extend the still valid. She can still extend the H1B. She can transfer the H-1B. She can H1B. She can transfer the H-1B. She can amend the H-1B. So why do you have to go amend the H-1B. So why do you have to go to the counselor to get the H1B to the counselor to get the H1B stamping? Absolutely not needed to go stamping? Absolutely not needed to go for H-1B stamping. This is for Nick. uh recent experiences on the RF for uh recent experiences on the RF for biometrics um and court documents. You biometrics um and court documents. You know, I don't think I've seen any know, I don't think I've seen any denials yet that I've heard of, but you denials yet that I've heard of, but you do need to take these RFS very do need to take these RFS very seriously. They want to, you know, what seriously. They want to, you know, what they're looking to do is deny the they're looking to do is deny the extension of stay, deny the I94. They're extension of stay, deny the I94. They're going to say that they have discretion going to say that they have discretion to do that. Um and so when you get these to do that. Um and so when you get these uh requests for the court documents, you uh requests for the court documents, you know, uh put in, why they should know, uh put in, why they should exercise that discretion, you know, um exercise that discretion, you know, um what were the charges? What were were what were the charges? What were were they dismissed? Were they whatever? What they dismissed? Were they whatever? What rehabilitation did you do? Did you go to rehabilitation did you do? Did you go to classes? Did you do volunteer work? Uh classes? Did you do volunteer work? Uh are you an outstanding member of the the are you an outstanding member of the the you know, you to your neighbors? you know, you to your neighbors? Whatever. Um you know, take these RFS Whatever. Um you know, take these RFS very seriously. very seriously. very seriously. Okay, couple of things I just want to let you couple of things I just want to let you know that there are a lot of people know that there are a lot of people whose palm because of the palm they are whose palm because of the palm they are moving to H4 plus EAD. What I strongly moving to H4 plus EAD. What I strongly recommend people is that to do file the recommend people is that to do file the H4 EAD way in advance. Let's say for H4 EAD way in advance. Let's say for example your 6 years H1B is expiring in example your 6 years H1B is expiring in June of 2026. Is this a right time for June of 2026. Is this a right time for you to file the H4 EAD? If you have an you to file the H4 EAD? If you have an option and if your exposes H1 is option and if your exposes H1 is expiring let's say in 2027 and 2028 expiring let's say in 2027 and 2028 absolutely it's the right time to file absolutely it's the right time to file for H4 plus EAD there are 95% of the for H4 plus EAD there are 95% of the time the H4 and EAD will be approved time the H4 and EAD will be approved together and if that 5% of the time the together and if that 5% of the time the H4 is approved and the EAD is not H4 is approved and the EAD is not approved together there are ways where approved together there are ways where you can go to Mexico and do a margarita you can go to Mexico and do a margarita switch and switch back to H1B and later switch and switch back to H1B and later on once EAD is approved you can switch on once EAD is approved you can switch back to H4 by doing a margarita switch. back to H4 by doing a margarita switch. So there are ways but don't delay So there are ways but don't delay because people contact me in May and because people contact me in May and they will ask me to apply for H4 EAD and they will ask me to apply for H4 EAD and get it expired. It's not it's not that get it expired. It's not it's not that easy to get the H4 ED faster. So then easy to get the H4 ED faster. So then what will happen is that when June your what will happen is that when June your H1B expires, you don't have a POM H1B expires, you don't have a POM application pending for more than one application pending for more than one year and you have to stop working in year and you have to stop working in June of 2026. But if you apply for H4 E8 June of 2026. But if you apply for H4 E8 right now, then you most probably don't right now, then you most probably don't have to uh discontinue working. Question from Sriant Question from Sriant AP. Um uh AP can they work in India? AP. Um uh AP can they work in India? Well guys look at me. You go to Well guys look at me. You go to Hyderabad, you go to Punea, Henji, you Hyderabad, you go to Punea, Henji, you go to Hyderabad in high-tech area, you go to Hyderabad in high-tech area, you go to Guram in Delhi, there are go to Guram in Delhi, there are thousands if not hundreds of thousands thousands if not hundreds of thousands of people. Even in the night time, there of people. Even in the night time, there are so many people working there. None are so many people working there. None of those people or at least 99% of those of those people or at least 99% of those people do not have any work permit. people do not have any work permit. They're all working legally. There's They're all working legally. There's nothing illegal for them. There are nothing illegal for them. There are Indian nationals that are working in Indian nationals that are working in India. Absolutely, they're allowed to do India. Absolutely, they're allowed to do so. So if you're there, you're not so. So if you're there, you're not working in EA AP, you're still allowed working in EA AP, you're still allowed to work. Absolutely not a problem. to work. Absolutely not a problem. I can't work in hydrobat, huh? I I'd I can't work in hydrobat, huh? I I'd have to get have to get you you need to get a work you you need to get a work permit. Definitely. permit. Definitely. permit. Definitely. But not an H-1B or an H4, right? That But not an H-1B or an H4, right? That wouldn't matter because immigration, US wouldn't matter because immigration, US immigration law doesn't apply in India. immigration law doesn't apply in India. That's That's That's doesn't apply to Yeah, Stephen for you. doesn't apply to Yeah, Stephen for you. Even though I'm a US citizen, uh Even though I'm a US citizen, uh Stephen, I have a something else kind of Stephen, I have a something else kind of green card kind of thing. I think it's green card kind of thing. I think it's called OCI overseas in F India. So that called OCI overseas in F India. So that allows me to go and work but you need to allows me to go and work but you need to get work permit definitely. get work permit definitely. But yeah I mean truthfully this comes up But yeah I mean truthfully this comes up all the time and and and you know I make all the time and and and you know I make a joke there about me needing a work a joke there about me needing a work permit but uh to work in India but we permit but uh to work in India but we get this question a lot. There is no get this question a lot. There is no requirement to comply with US requirement to comply with US immigration law. Now there might be tax immigration law. Now there might be tax consequences. There might be other consequences. There might be other consequences when you're outside the consequences when you're outside the United States uh because it's not US United States uh because it's not US immigration. US immigration is all about immigration. US immigration is all about where you're physically sitting, right? where you're physically sitting, right? And so um when you're in India, it And so um when you're in India, it doesn't apply. I know there are some doesn't apply. I know there are some officers at Abu Dhabi who may or may not officers at Abu Dhabi who may or may not be doing. be doing. be doing. It did not happen, Stephen. It is some It did not happen, Stephen. It is some fake news. I don't because I never spoke fake news. I don't because I never spoke with them. with them. with them. No. And and I've only seen that one No. And and I've only seen that one rumor. Um I just had a guy come in. no rumor. Um I just had a guy come in. no issues. Um, so don't don't stress about issues. Um, so don't don't stress about it when you go abroad, whether it's it when you go abroad, whether it's Europe, whether it's whatever, you know, Europe, whether it's whatever, you know, make sure you have the right to work make sure you have the right to work where you are. Uh, but you don't, you where you are. Uh, but you don't, you know, it doesn't impact your H-1B. In know, it doesn't impact your H-1B. In fact, uh, quite honestly, Rahul, with if fact, uh, quite honestly, Rahul, with if you're on H-1B, you can recapture that you're on H-1B, you can recapture that time spent outside. Um, time spent outside. Um, even though you continued working even though you continued working though. though. though. Yeah. So, Yeah. So, Yeah. So, yeah. So let's say for example you you yeah. So let's say for example you you have six years of H1B but you worked have six years of H1B but you worked four months in India like your gentleman four months in India like your gentleman that guy went from April to August he that guy went from April to August he went and he came back he can recapture went and he came back he can recapture that time even though he worked for the that time even though he worked for the company even though he got paid for the company even though he got paid for the company he can recapture that time company he can recapture that time saying that hey I haven't used up my six saying that hey I haven't used up my six years four months I spent outside the years four months I spent outside the country yeah you're right that's a very country yeah you're right that's a very good point good point good point so obviously immigration doesn't think so obviously immigration doesn't think it's H1B when you can recapture it. So, it's H1B when you can recapture it. So, um, but I I you know, I get that um, but I I you know, I get that question a lot. I know people are question a lot. I know people are panicked about the one social media panicked about the one social media rumor. I haven't been able to rumor. I haven't been able to substantiate it. Um, so just just if we substantiate it. Um, so just just if we see something, we'll say something. Um, is saying that he heard from another Um, is saying that he heard from another lawyer not maintaining other status when lawyer not maintaining other status when a spending is not recommended. a spending is not recommended. Uh, I may disagree on that thing, Uh, I may disagree on that thing, especially in the employment based especially in the employment based immigration. I may disagree on that immigration. I may disagree on that thing. thing. thing. Yeah, I think it's there's different Yeah, I think it's there's different strategies different lawyers would have. strategies different lawyers would have. I mean, um, I don't think they're wrong. I mean, um, I don't think they're wrong. Uh, there's nothing wrong with Uh, there's nothing wrong with maintaining your non-immigrant status. I maintaining your non-immigrant status. I don't necessarily think it's needed if don't necessarily think it's needed if your immigrant visa petition is your immigrant visa petition is approved, the I140, the 526 is approved, approved, the I140, the 526 is approved, and the EAD has been approved. Uh and the EAD has been approved. Uh there's no I once the 526 or the I140 there's no I once the 526 or the I140 has been approved I think you're okay if has been approved I think you're okay if I wouldn't necessarily recommend it if I wouldn't necessarily recommend it if you're waiting for the adjudication of you're waiting for the adjudication of the 526 or the I140 the 526 or the I140 Jax is asking this question and I am not Jax is asking this question and I am not a finance guy to advise I'm just a finance guy to advise I'm just advising only in the immigration part of advising only in the immigration part of it he is having uh I'm assuming that he it he is having uh I'm assuming that he will have a main job on H1B and GCE will have a main job on H1B and GCE where he's a primary holder on the side where he's a primary holder on the side he is going to do day trading that is he he is going to do day trading that is he will do multiple trades in the stock will do multiple trades in the stock market. Will that be a problem at the market. Will that be a problem at the time of will that will that be a problem time of will that will that be a problem getting the green card? Absolutely will getting the green card? Absolutely will not be a problem. Uh you can do day not be a problem. Uh you can do day trading. This is only as an immigration trading. This is only as an immigration advisor. I am not advising based on the advisor. I am not advising based on the financial things which I'm not uh I'm financial things which I'm not uh I'm not good at it. Uh I'm not good at it. I not good at it. Uh I'm not good at it. I did day trading. I lost all my money a did day trading. I lost all my money a long long long long time ago 30 years long long long long time ago 30 years ago and I never ever did it. But that's ago and I never ever did it. But that's finance side. As far as immigration finance side. As far as immigration side, you can I don't see any problem. side, you can I don't see any problem. Anything else, Stephen? Anything else, Stephen? No. No. And again, we're I understand No. No. And again, we're I understand lots of questions. We're trying to um lots of questions. We're trying to um keep on top of it. One thing uh you keep on top of it. One thing uh you know, Emily Newman and I do a podcast uh know, Emily Newman and I do a podcast uh Visa Vibes. We do it weekly. Uh it's on Visa Vibes. We do it weekly. Uh it's on YouTube, Spotify, um Apple podcast. If YouTube, Spotify, um Apple podcast. If you have a topic you want us to suggest, you have a topic you want us to suggest, reach out to us at the info email or uh reach out to us at the info email or uh reach out to us on social media. We're reach out to us on social media. We're always happy to talk about what people always happy to talk about what people want to hear. want to hear. And do you have any And do you have any particular subject that you're doing particular subject that you're doing this week, Stephen? Yeah, I think the this week, Stephen? Yeah, I think the one that came out today was um on the one that came out today was um on the dignity act maybe, ironically. And then dignity act maybe, ironically. And then uh this this upcoming week uh we're uh this this upcoming week uh we're doing one on kind of preparing for doing one on kind of preparing for delays in immigration context, you know, delays in immigration context, you know, best practices. Uh we're already best practices. Uh we're already starting to see some trends on the Trump starting to see some trends on the Trump administration. So, um we've done a administration. So, um we've done a whole bunch of them. If you have whole bunch of them. If you have anything that you want us to discuss uh anything that you want us to discuss uh for a 30-minute podcast, happy to do it. for a 30-minute podcast, happy to do it. Thank you very much for joining.