================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: OS6hcAQ1tC0
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OS6hcAQ1tC0
TITLE: Ep 419: India's MSME Landscape -- Some Useful Frameworks
CHANNEL: The Seen and the Unseen
PUBLISHED: 2025-06-02
DURATION: 4h 40m 24s
VIEWS: 6,657
LIKES: 135
COMMENTS: 11

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
Firms are the means of economic progress. India's micro, small and medium enterprises have been hobbled for decades, and flounder even today. Sudhir Sarnobat and Narendra Shenoy join Amit Varma in episode 419 of The Seen and the Unseen to discuss this landscape -- and Sudhir's brilliant new venture that aims to tackle this.  (FOR FULL LINKED SHOW NOTES, GO TO SEENUNSEEN.IN.)  Also check out: 1. Sudhir Sarnobat on Twitter and LinkedIn.  2. Naren Shenoy on Twitter, Instagram and Blogspot.  3. How Frameworks — Sudhir Sarnobat’s new venture. 4. Narendra Shenoy and Mr Narendra Shenoy — Episode 250 of The Seen and the Unseen. 5. Sudhir Sarnobat Works to Understand the World -- Episode 350 of The Seen and the Unseen. 6. We Are All Amits From Africa — Episode 343 of The Seen and the Unseen (w Krish Ashok and Naren Shenoy). 7. You’re Ugly and You’re Hairy and You’re Covered in Shit but You’re Mine and I Love You -- Episode 362 of The Seen and the Unseen (w Krish Ashok and Naren Shenoy). 8. The 
... [truncated]

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 157
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: yt-dlp
Language: en
Word count: 100,799

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
How does society progress? How does an How does society progress? How does an economy grow? The answer, voluntary economy grow? The answer, voluntary action. For our own self-interest, we action. For our own self-interest, we fulfill each other's needs. Whether in a fulfill each other's needs. Whether in a monetary way or otherwise, whether using monetary way or otherwise, whether using markets or outside of them, we profit by markets or outside of them, we profit by making other people better off. I often making other people better off. I often speak about the double thank you moment, speak about the double thank you moment, a phrase that John Stell came up with. a phrase that John Stell came up with. When I buy a coffee at Starbucks, the When I buy a coffee at Starbucks, the person at the counter says thank you person at the counter says thank you when I make my payment. And I say thank when I make my payment. And I say thank you when I get the coffee. They value you when I get the coffee. They value the money more than the coffee. I value the money more than the coffee. I value the coffee more than the money. Both of the coffee more than the money. Both of us are better off in this double thank us are better off in this double thank you moment. It's a positive sum game. you moment. It's a positive sum game. And the more such voluntary transactions And the more such voluntary transactions that take place, the better off we all that take place, the better off we all are. And firms are an important part of are. And firms are an important part of this. So much economic activity is this. So much economic activity is organized through firms because firms organized through firms because firms can serve the needs of people at scale. can serve the needs of people at scale. Most of the good things in our lives, Most of the good things in our lives, the products, the services, the the products, the services, the employment comes from firms. So a good employment comes from firms. So a good barometer of an economy's health is the barometer of an economy's health is the health of its firms. And in India, we health of its firms. And in India, we have a huge problem. We haven't allowed have a huge problem. We haven't allowed our firms to prosper. For decades after our firms to prosper. For decades after independence, the guiding philosophy of independence, the guiding philosophy of the state was a distrust of markets the state was a distrust of markets instead of an embrace of them, which is instead of an embrace of them, which is the only rational response. An the only rational response. An oppressive state shackled voluntary oppressive state shackled voluntary action in society and kept firms action in society and kept firms crippled. A series of bad laws and crippled. A series of bad laws and regulations made with good intent but regulations made with good intent but leading to terrible outcomes meant that leading to terrible outcomes meant that firms were disincentivized from growing firms were disincentivized from growing because at various stages at 10 because at various stages at 10 employees or 20 employees or 100 employees or 20 employees or 100 employees depending on the law the cost employees depending on the law the cost of expanding would be so much that firms of expanding would be so much that firms would simply not expand and when you would simply not expand and when you can't scale your business you can't can't scale your business you can't scale your service to society because scale your service to society because that is exactly what business is India that is exactly what business is India should have had the kind of should have had the kind of manufacturing revolution China had but manufacturing revolution China had but we missed that bus completely because we missed that bus completely because our state instead of enabling our our state instead of enabling our entrepreneurs acted as a parasite. So entrepreneurs acted as a parasite. So today our landscape of MSME firms, today our landscape of MSME firms, micro, small and medium enterprises micro, small and medium enterprises consists mainly of micro firms with low consists mainly of micro firms with low productivity. One challenge we face as a productivity. One challenge we face as a nation, how do we get them to scale the nation, how do we get them to scale the way they do in other countries? A way they do in other countries? A further challenge that then appears is further challenge that then appears is how do we get our small and medium firms how do we get our small and medium firms to grow even bigger? Some of the answer to grow even bigger? Some of the answer has to do with getting the state out of has to do with getting the state out of the way. And since 1991, things have the way. And since 1991, things have improved a little, but only a little. improved a little, but only a little. But this challenge of driving towards a But this challenge of driving towards a modern economy can also be met from modern economy can also be met from within civil society, from within within civil society, from within markets. That's what this episode is markets. That's what this episode is about. about. about. Welcome to the seen and the unseen, our Welcome to the seen and the unseen, our weekly podcast on economics, politics, weekly podcast on economics, politics, and behavioral science. Please welcome and behavioral science. Please welcome your host, Amit Ba. your host, Amit Ba. Welcome to the scene and the unseen. My Welcome to the scene and the unseen. My guests today are my good friends Sudhir guests today are my good friends Sudhir Sanobartad and Narendra Shinoi. Sudir Sanobartad and Narendra Shinoi. Sudir was my guest on episode 350 and he's was my guest on episode 350 and he's just started a fantastic firm called How just started a fantastic firm called How Frameworks. How frameworks begins with a Frameworks. How frameworks begins with a problem statement. Manymemes small and problem statement. Manymemes small and medium enterprises get stuck and can't medium enterprises get stuck and can't grow beyond the point. There is a set of grow beyond the point. There is a set of reasons behind this which are a reasons behind this which are a combination of universal reasons and combination of universal reasons and local contextual reasons. How frameworks local contextual reasons. How frameworks provides a set of different frameworks provides a set of different frameworks to thinking about this. Sudhi's to thinking about this. Sudhi's co-founder Ajendra Bugway is a legendary co-founder Ajendra Bugway is a legendary entrepreneur himself who spent decades entrepreneur himself who spent decades helping otherme owners in Maharashtra helping otherme owners in Maharashtra with a community that he runs. This with a community that he runs. This business is an attempt to business is an attempt to institutionalize his insights and that institutionalize his insights and that community. We'll talk more about it in community. We'll talk more about it in this episode. And I saw this really as this episode. And I saw this really as an opportunity to understand India's an opportunity to understand India's MSME landscape much better. Sudhir has MSME landscape much better. Sudhir has deep knowledge of this domain and so deep knowledge of this domain and so does our good friend the recontorter does our good friend the recontorter Narendra Shenoi who runs anme himself Narendra Shenoi who runs anme himself and has decades of stories about it as and has decades of stories about it as you'll figure out right at the start of you'll figure out right at the start of this episode. So let's get rolling with this episode. So let's get rolling with this conversation. But first let's take this conversation. But first let's take a quick commercial break. Do you want to read more? I've break. Do you want to read more? I've put in a lot of work in recent years in put in a lot of work in recent years in building a reading habit. This means building a reading habit. This means that I read more books, but I also read that I read more books, but I also read more long form articles and essays. more long form articles and essays. There's a world of knowledge available There's a world of knowledge available through the internet. But the problem we through the internet. But the problem we all face is how do we navigate this all face is how do we navigate this knowledge? How do we know what to read? knowledge? How do we know what to read? How do we put the right incentives in How do we put the right incentives in place? Well, I discovered one way. A place? Well, I discovered one way. A couple of friends of mine run this couple of friends of mine run this awesome company called CTQ compounds at awesome company called CTQ compounds at ctmpounds.com which aims to help people ctmpounds.com which aims to help people uplevel themselves by reading more. A uplevel themselves by reading more. A few months ago, I signed up for one of few months ago, I signed up for one of their programs called the daily reader. their programs called the daily reader. Every day for 6 months, they sent me a Every day for 6 months, they sent me a long form article to read. The subjects long form article to read. The subjects covered went from machine learning to covered went from machine learning to mythology to mental models and mythology to mental models and marmalade. This helped me build a habit marmalade. This helped me build a habit of reading. At the end of every day, I of reading. At the end of every day, I understood the world a little better understood the world a little better than I did before. So, if you want to than I did before. So, if you want to build your reading habit, head on over build your reading habit, head on over to CTQ compounds and check out their to CTQ compounds and check out their daily reader. New batches start every daily reader. New batches start every month. They also have a great program month. They also have a great program called Future Stack, which helps you called Future Stack, which helps you stay upto date with ideas, skills, and stay upto date with ideas, skills, and mental models that will help you stay mental models that will help you stay relevant in the future. Future stack relevant in the future. Future stack batches start every Saturday. What's batches start every Saturday. What's more, you get a discount of a whopping more, you get a discount of a whopping 2500 rupees, 2,500 if you use the 2500 rupees, 2,500 if you use the discount code unseen. So head on over to discount code unseen. So head on over to CTQ compounds at ctqo compounds.com and CTQ compounds at ctqo compounds.com and use the code unseen. Uplevel yourself. Sudhir and Narin, welcome to the scene Sudhir and Narin, welcome to the scene and the unseen. I'm very happy to be and the unseen. I'm very happy to be here. Yeah, thank you for having me. here. Yeah, thank you for having me. So we are going to talk about uhmemes. So we are going to talk about uhmemes. That's basically what uh and I am a card That's basically what uh and I am a card carrying owner. So I have my own theme carrying owner. So I have my own theme and I've been in the theme world for and I've been in the theme world for decades now. Things have changed. decades now. Things have changed. They've got a lot better and at the same They've got a lot better and at the same time things haven't either. time things haven't either. uh one of the first um uh experiences uh one of the first um uh experiences that I had not not my own experience. It that I had not not my own experience. It was a was a was a neighbor who was neighbor who was manufacturing something which went it it manufacturing something which went it it was it was a neutral kind of item but it was it was a neutral kind of item but it also went into refrigerators. It also also went into refrigerators. It also went into air went into air conditioners and as um luck would have conditioners and as um luck would have it they had like refrigerators a very it they had like refrigerators a very low rate of duty excise and air low rate of duty excise and air conditioners was really high. Mhm. conditioners was really high. Mhm. And this gentleman was raided. And this gentleman was raided. Uh-huh. She was raided for uh Uh-huh. She was raided for uh supplying what what the excise supplying what what the excise department said was uh you know department said was uh you know supplying air conditioner components supplying air conditioner components labeled as rupturator component. Okay. labeled as rupturator component. Okay. And it was brutal. That guy was And it was brutal. That guy was destroyed by that raid and then he wound destroyed by that raid and then he wound up. He he had to just close down shop up. He he had to just close down shop and go away. And the curious thing that and go away. And the curious thing that happened after that was so he he was I happened after that was so he he was I think he was an old man so he he lost think he was an old man so he he lost the will to continue this work but his the will to continue this work but his company basically they had a lot of company basically they had a lot of machines the supervisors got together machines the supervisors got together and bought the company. Okay. So they and bought the company. Okay. So they had the customers they had the knowhow had the customers they had the knowhow they had the machinery and two companies they had the machinery and two companies started out of that. One made started out of that. One made refrigerator parts, one made air refrigerator parts, one made air conditioner parts. And as far as I know, conditioner parts. And as far as I know, 30 years later, they are doing amazingly 30 years later, they are doing amazingly well. So this is how the MSME world well. So this is how the MSME world functions is strange. For somebody it is functions is strange. For somebody it is a death nail, for somebody it's start. a death nail, for somebody it's start. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So it's this bizarre world that I think So it's this bizarre world that I think Sudhir is uh doing human service in Sudhir is uh doing human service in making sense out of. So I can't wait to making sense out of. So I can't wait to get started with see I think worldwide get started with see I think worldwide if you see MSMES mean people feel that if you see MSMES mean people feel that large corporations run the world but large corporations run the world but that's truly not true. Uh almost 90 more that's truly not true. Uh almost 90 more than 95% companies are MSME companies than 95% companies are MSME companies and uh that's a staggeringly high number and uh that's a staggeringly high number actually. a very very high number mean actually. a very very high number mean in in Germany the middle stands are in in Germany the middle stands are 99.4%. Only just 6% companies are big 99.4%. Only just 6% companies are big companies 99.4% 4% companies are middle companies 99.4% 4% companies are middle stand the small companies so they have a stand the small companies so they have a definition that less than 500 employees definition that less than 500 employees or less than 500 million euros if you or less than 500 million euros if you the revenue then they are called middle the revenue then they are called middle stands and then they have lower middle stands and then they have lower middle stand upper middle stand and all but stand upper middle stand and all but world you go to US you go to Southeast world you go to US you go to Southeast Asia you go to Europe uh you go to Latin Asia you go to Europe uh you go to Latin America and India and China everywhere America and India and China everywhere the small and medium businesses are the small and medium businesses are almost more than 95% the Another almost more than 95% the Another interesting part is that more than 60 interesting part is that more than 60 65% people work in MSMES. So we feel 65% people work in MSMES. So we feel that large companies really give that large companies really give employment. It is not true. It is MSMES employment. It is not true. It is MSMES who generally build the employment right who generally build the employment right from so you take multiple statistics for from so you take multiple statistics for across the world but 50 to 66% 67% is across the world but 50 to 66% 67% is the kind of employment and as part of the kind of employment and as part of GDP anything ranging between 35 36% to GDP anything ranging between 35 36% to 50%. So they are also almost half of GDP 50%. So they are also almost half of GDP that they run and this is basically I that they run and this is basically I will say that it's a spine of any will say that it's a spine of any economy in any any country and that's economy in any any country and that's how they work but yes uh they have their how they work but yes uh they have their own challenges uh uh China has figured own challenges uh uh China has figured out a way through government out a way through government intervention and lot of policies good intervention and lot of policies good policies and lot of capital uh the policies and lot of capital uh the European middle stands which are European middle stands which are basically there in the entire Europe basically there in the entire Europe mostly in Germany mostly in Germany um they are resilient, they are um they are resilient, they are fantastic, they have really so China fantastic, they have really so China works on economies of scale and low cost works on economies of scale and low cost while Germany focuses on quality and while Germany focuses on quality and worldwide reach. So they will go into worldwide reach. So they will go into one or two or three max uh sectors one or two or three max uh sectors products and they will become number one products and they will become number one or number two in that particular sector or number two in that particular sector and they will sell across the world. So and they will sell across the world. So and these companies are not really in um and these companies are not really in um big industrial states or place they are big industrial states or place they are all small townships. A small town has a all small townships. A small town has a one middle stand there and that one one middle stand there and that one middle stand is taking care of middle stand is taking care of everything. When it comes to India we everything. When it comes to India we have almost 6 to 6.2 crores MSMES but have almost 6 to 6.2 crores MSMES but out of the 6.2 2 crores MSMES almost out of the 6.2 2 crores MSMES almost 6.13 crores are micro so only 6 to 7 6.13 crores are micro so only 6 to 7 lakh aremes small and medium enterprises lakh aremes small and medium enterprises now if you see the medium enterprises now if you see the medium enterprises which are defined between 100 crores to which are defined between 100 crores to 500 crores those are hardly some 7 or 500 crores those are hardly some 7 or 10,000 and maybe remaining five five and 10,000 and maybe remaining five five and a half lakh are the small enterprises so a half lakh are the small enterprises so the definition in India is that if you the definition in India is that if you have a investment of 2.5 crores and if have a investment of 2.5 crores and if your revenue revenue is up to 10 crores your revenue revenue is up to 10 crores then you are called a microenterprise. then you are called a microenterprise. Uh if your investments are around 25 Uh if your investments are around 25 crores and you are from say let's say 10 crores and you are from say let's say 10 crores to 100 crores then you are called crores to 100 crores then you are called a small enterprise and the medium is you a small enterprise and the medium is you have 125 cr investment or 100 to 500 cr have 125 cr investment or 100 to 500 cr revenue turnover then it is the middle revenue turnover then it is the middle enterprise and the moment you cross 500 enterprise and the moment you cross 500 cr you go beyond. Now if you see really cr you go beyond. Now if you see really we have so many micro so a restaurant is we have so many micro so a restaurant is a micro a typical chiwala if is doing a micro a typical chiwala if is doing let's say 30 40 50 lakhs that that let's say 30 40 50 lakhs that that person also would be a microenterprise person also would be a microenterprise and there are whole lot of and there are whole lot of microenterprise the idea is basically microenterprise the idea is basically that we need to move a lot of micros that we need to move a lot of micros from micro to small and small to medium from micro to small and small to medium because that's where the real game because that's where the real game starts that's where the economies of starts that's where the economies of scale come that's where the pro scale come that's where the pro profitability comes that's where the profitability comes that's where the brand building comes that's where the brand building comes that's where the reach uh happens the world over rich reach uh happens the world over rich what you what you reach want now India what you what you reach want now India has a distinct advantage like China we has a distinct advantage like China we have 1.4 billion people China had 1.2 have 1.4 billion people China had 1.2 into 1.3 billion people. So the domestic into 1.3 billion people. So the domestic consumption becomes good. So you as an consumption becomes good. So you as an company you start catering to the company you start catering to the domestic demand and over a period of domestic demand and over a period of time after catering to the domestic time after catering to the domestic demand testing your product improving demand testing your product improving your economies of scale then you can your economies of scale then you can move to exports and export is where the move to exports and export is where the profitability is because of the in profitability is because of the in currency exchange rate and all that but currency exchange rate and all that but that's where the the fun is and that is that's where the the fun is and that is the biggest advantage in India but then the biggest advantage in India but then we have really not grown beyond that we have really not grown beyond that micro stage the the struggle really is micro stage the the struggle really is to moving from micro to small and small to moving from micro to small and small to medium that's the real struggle in to medium that's the real struggle in India the little quantum jumps. Yeah. India the little quantum jumps. Yeah. Yeah. So I want to um do a bit of Yeah. So I want to um do a bit of context setting here and just take one context setting here and just take one further step back. And by the way that's further step back. And by the way that's a that's a moving story uh Narin and uh a that's a moving story uh Narin and uh Sudir you gave a great sort of potted Sudir you gave a great sort of potted understanding of the uh the role that understanding of the uh the role that MSMES play across the world and uh just MSMES play across the world and uh just to break it up for my listeners like to break it up for my listeners like what are MSMES and why am I talking what are MSMES and why am I talking about something that seems so arcane and about something that seems so arcane and I just want to say it is not arcane. It I just want to say it is not arcane. It is critical to our well-being. MSMES are is critical to our well-being. MSMES are micro, small and medium industries and micro, small and medium industries and um I want to go to a fundamental point um I want to go to a fundamental point that AJ Sha and I keep talking about in that AJ Sha and I keep talking about in our show everything is everything where our show everything is everything where we have a bunch of episodes centered we have a bunch of episodes centered around firms and the core point that AJ around firms and the core point that AJ keeps making which most people don't keeps making which most people don't realize is that a society advances realize is that a society advances because of firms like if you think of because of firms like if you think of how do we progress how do we reach how do we progress how do we reach prosperity we do it through voluntary prosperity we do it through voluntary exchanges between consenting adults exchanges between consenting adults right Because every voluntary exchange right Because every voluntary exchange between any two people is a double thank between any two people is a double thank you moment. Both people are better off. you moment. Both people are better off. It's a positive sum game that is being It's a positive sum game that is being played. How do these exchanges typically played. How do these exchanges typically take place? They don't take place just take place? They don't take place just individual to individual as back in the individual to individual as back in the day through the barter system that I'll day through the barter system that I'll give you my laptop, you give me three give you my laptop, you give me three chickens. I don't know if such an chickens. I don't know if such an exchange has ever taken place. But you exchange has ever taken place. But you have a system of finance that comes up have a system of finance that comes up and you have uh firms that form and and you have uh firms that form and those firms trade with each other. those firms trade with each other. Entrepreneurs enter a market because Entrepreneurs enter a market because they they want to be you know some they they want to be you know some individual decides that uh there is a individual decides that uh there is a gap in the market. He can make money for gap in the market. He can make money for himself by making other people better himself by making other people better off and all of this is organized through off and all of this is organized through firms. Right? So firms are in a sense firms. Right? So firms are in a sense the fundamental unit that you should the fundamental unit that you should think about when you think of human think about when you think of human progress and the nature of firms and how progress and the nature of firms and how they evolve plays a very big part like I they evolve plays a very big part like I did a um an episode with uh Timur Kuran did a um an episode with uh Timur Kuran where he spoke about the Middle East and where he spoke about the Middle East and how it so happened that um you know the how it so happened that um you know the Middle East despite having more Middle East despite having more progressive laws in the 10th century progressive laws in the 10th century happened to stay further back and didn't happened to stay further back and didn't uh you know really progress and all uh you know really progress and all their firm stayed small and uh you know their firm stayed small and uh you know I will just point listeners to that I will just point listeners to that episode but it's fascinating AJ and I episode but it's fascinating AJ and I had a episode of everything is had a episode of everything is everything called the beauty of finance everything called the beauty of finance uh I think episode 21 where we also uh I think episode 21 where we also spoke about this and you can hear it spoke about this and you can hear it there but what essentially happened was there but what essentially happened was due to accidents of history uh firms in due to accidents of history uh firms in the middle east couldn't get big stock the middle east couldn't get big stock market never emerged the financial market never emerged the financial system never evolved uh centuries passed system never evolved uh centuries passed like that till things started to get like that till things started to get better while in the west they did and better while in the west they did and the west flourished for that reason and the west flourished for that reason and part of the reason is Small firms became part of the reason is Small firms became mediumsiz, medium-sized firms became big mediumsiz, medium-sized firms became big and that is a key part of the journey as and that is a key part of the journey as Sudhir pointed out is a journey that you Sudhir pointed out is a journey that you make because in that journey you find make because in that journey you find economies of scale creative destruction economies of scale creative destruction happens etc etc and the west has done happens etc etc and the west has done this very well and in India this very well and in India unfortunately due to a cornucopia of unfortunately due to a cornucopia of labor laws, industrial laws etc etc. Uh labor laws, industrial laws etc etc. Uh our micro industries were practically our micro industries were practically forced to stay micro. It was not in the forced to stay micro. It was not in the interest of a micro industry to become interest of a micro industry to become medium because the regulatory burden medium because the regulatory burden would be too much and it was just less would be too much and it was just less of majari and less of a headache to of majari and less of a headache to either stay in the informal sector or to either stay in the informal sector or to or to stay small and that's just the way or to stay small and that's just the way it is. So we find ourselves in the very it is. So we find ourselves in the very unusual situation that as you pointed unusual situation that as you pointed out sud that you know out of 6.2 2 cr out sud that you know out of 6.2 2 cr MSME 6.13 are micros that's just a MSME 6.13 are micros that's just a bizarre uh uh and troublesome um uh sort bizarre uh uh and troublesome um uh sort of situation so this is the landscape of situation so this is the landscape take me a little further into within take me a little further into within this landscape um uh you know what are this landscape um uh you know what are the mentalities like and how people look the mentalities like and how people look at this landscape because I remember you at this landscape because I remember you know when we were growing up in the 80s know when we were growing up in the 80s and '90s and if you look at cinema from and '90s and if you look at cinema from even earlier your typical Hindi film even earlier your typical Hindi film villain was always a businessman the villain was always a businessman the Lala the sate Lala the sate you know and uh uh the industrialist was you know and uh uh the industrialist was always uh the caricature and the villain always uh the caricature and the villain and there was a lot of cronyism so one and there was a lot of cronyism so one can also understand where those feelings can also understand where those feelings kind of came from as people who built uh kind of came from as people who built uh you know industries like that yourselves you know industries like that yourselves uh I don't know whether you're micro or uh I don't know whether you're micro or small uh narin or perhaps medium forgive small uh narin or perhaps medium forgive me but as people who you know built me but as people who you know built companies yourself in the past uh uh you companies yourself in the past uh uh you know what has been your sense of that know what has been your sense of that journey in terms of uh how hard was that journey in terms of uh how hard was that journey for you in terms of the people journey for you in terms of the people around you, the society around you? Uh around you, the society around you? Uh and how hard was it from a regulatory and how hard was it from a regulatory point of view where as in the case of point of view where as in the case of the story that you just told Narin that the story that you just told Narin that um the state almost assumes you to be um the state almost assumes you to be guilty until deemed innocent. You are by guilty until deemed innocent. You are by default the criminal and if you manage default the criminal and if you manage to come out of that and somehow prove to come out of that and somehow prove your innocence you could be so broken or your innocence you could be so broken or there is so much friction in that there is so much friction in that process that you process that you say and there's so much lost in that say and there's so much lost in that journey. So give me a sense of your journey. So give me a sense of your journeys uh individually so I can get a journeys uh individually so I can get a sense of u um you know um what that sense of u um you know um what that journey can be like for all of these journey can be like for all of these people who are on that path. So in my people who are on that path. So in my case, I grew up uh my company grew. I case, I grew up uh my company grew. I started my own company. I didn't have a started my own company. I didn't have a background in manufacturing or in background in manufacturing or in business because my I my father was a business because my I my father was a doctor and uh literally no one in our doctor and uh literally no one in our family was ever uh so when I took the family was ever uh so when I took the plunge I uh found very quickly that uh plunge I uh found very quickly that uh you were constantly butting heads with you were constantly butting heads with the system and it's very menacing. So the system and it's very menacing. So how people come? So when when the system how people come? So when when the system the representative it could be a labor the representative it could be a labor officer, it could be the factories officer, it could be the factories inspector, it could be anyone who comes inspector, it could be anyone who comes he his objective is to extract money he his objective is to extract money from you. Okay? And from you. Okay? And uh in order to do that he has to terrify uh in order to do that he has to terrify you first. And almost all of them at you first. And almost all of them at least back in the day had the power to least back in the day had the power to close your shop down. and he would just close your shop down. and he would just first start off with that. It's the first start off with that. It's the whole experience. I was 26 years old whole experience. I was 26 years old when I started. It was uh traumatic and when I started. It was uh traumatic and this used to happen on almost a monthly this used to happen on almost a monthly basis. Someone or the other to come and basis. Someone or the other to come and it is so ridiculous. I mean some of it is so ridiculous. I mean some of these laws I didn't know it at that time these laws I didn't know it at that time but later and those laws still uh exist. but later and those laws still uh exist. you have you know if you if you have a you have you know if you if you have a manufacturing unit in Bombay you manufacturing unit in Bombay you typically making do with 500 or,000 typically making do with 500 or,000 square ft not more than that and it square ft not more than that and it requires the law requires you to keep 3 requires the law requires you to keep 3 ft or 1 m or something like that between ft or 1 m or something like that between the machine and the wall and between the machine and the wall and between machines and things like that. So if you machines and things like that. So if you have a 500 ft literally you can't you have a 500 ft literally you can't you have just one machine and all the have just one machine and all the workers have to sit outside. So you have workers have to sit outside. So you have you start with laws which are impossible you start with laws which are impossible to comply with and then the person who to comply with and then the person who is in charge of ensuring the compliance is in charge of ensuring the compliance becomes your becomes your becomes your extortionist and uh we also see that extortionist and uh we also see that once a company becomes a particular size once a company becomes a particular size the demands go up. So there is a lot of the demands go up. So there is a lot of socialism in that. So uh in our socialism in that. So uh in our industrial estate or somebody came and industrial estate or somebody came and it was some I forget what it was some it was some I forget what it was some municipal guy and he demanded 5,000 municipal guy and he demanded 5,000 rupees for me. I gave him that 5,000 rupees for me. I gave him that 5,000 rupees and later I found that everyone rupees and later I found that everyone else had given only 1,000 rupees. So I else had given only 1,000 rupees. So I was like you know I felt cheated. So I was like you know I felt cheated. So I caught this gentleman outside and I told caught this gentleman outside and I told him so he said so it's uh the the coded messenger said so it's uh the the coded messenger is don't grow too big and then literally is don't grow too big and then literally everyone else tells you boss one so all everyone else tells you boss one so all of us in the small scale know HUF very of us in the small scale know HUF very well right so you have one HUF in your well right so you have one HUF in your name you have if you have any male name you have if you have any male children each of them has an HF what's children each of them has an HF what's an HUF Hindu undivided family okay it's an HUF Hindu undivided family okay it's it's like a like a yeah so you own a it's like a like a yeah so you own a company let us say Amitma owns a company company let us say Amitma owns a company and Amitma has uh like you know you you and Amitma has uh like you know you you your turnover is growing so let's say your turnover is growing so let's say your company is called Amit Engineering your company is called Amit Engineering and you start another company called WMA and you start another company called WMA Engineering and another one called Amit Engineering and another one called Amit Kumar Engineering and things of that but Kumar Engineering and things of that but you can't be the same owner you need you can't be the same owner you need different tax entities so all you have different tax entities so all you have to do is you have to start an Amit uh to do is you have to start an Amit uh HUF Amit HUF. So you can have Amit HUF Amit HUF. So you can have Amit Engineering which is a sole Engineering which is a sole proprietorship of Amitma. You can have proprietorship of Amitma. You can have another Amit Kumar engineering which is another Amit Kumar engineering which is you know things like that. There's no you know things like that. There's no Kumar in my name but you can everyone is Kumar in my name but you can everyone is like you know all Indians have the right like you know all Indians have the right to be either Kumar or Kumari apparently to be either Kumar or Kumari apparently and like this is there enshrined and like this is there enshrined somewhere in somewhere in somewhere in the so what is hardcoded and where I'm the so what is hardcoded and where I'm coming from is the wisdom that you stay coming from is the wisdom that you stay small stay under the radar I'm talking small stay under the radar I'm talking for manufacturing manufacturing has you for manufacturing manufacturing has you know it's like plants right so plants know it's like plants right so plants have all these chemical defenses because have all these chemical defenses because plants can't run plants can't run So manufacturing guys can't run away. If So manufacturing guys can't run away. If you're a trading guy, you can shut shop you're a trading guy, you can shut shop in Malad and you can go to Gorea and in Malad and you can go to Gorea and start and it'll be a different municipal start and it'll be a different municipal officer and then you can start. officer and then you can start. Manufacturing guy is screwed basically. Manufacturing guy is screwed basically. He has to be in the same place. So it he He has to be in the same place. So it he has that manufacturer develops his own has that manufacturer develops his own chemical defenses basically is morphing chemical defenses basically is morphing into smaller smaller smaller. So typ all into smaller smaller smaller. So typ all of us we have we would operate in three of us we have we would operate in three or four gallas. Consider how ine or four gallas. Consider how ine inefficient this is. Okay. So I get a inefficient this is. Okay. So I get a slab of steel which I have to machine slab of steel which I have to machine into a particular size. Then that goes into a particular size. Then that goes and some precision holes are drilled and some precision holes are drilled that goes and then some welding is done that goes and then some welding is done on that and that. So it goes to four on that and that. So it goes to four different gallas. Somebody has to go different gallas. Somebody has to go carry it. All your workers like from carry it. All your workers like from gala 1 to gala 2. He's basically gala 1 to gala 2. He's basically standing in the corridor and smoking a standing in the corridor and smoking a be. So his productivity diminishes a lot be. So his productivity diminishes a lot and he has basically no incentive to and he has basically no incentive to work because you know he's and the work because you know he's and the overall uh sort of uh efficiency of the overall uh sort of uh efficiency of the system decreases like anything. What is system decreases like anything. What is the government and where do we get our the government and where do we get our business from? We get our business from business from? We get our business from big companies. So we used to supply to big companies. So we used to supply to Mahindra, we used to supply to L&amp;T, we Mahindra, we used to supply to L&amp;T, we used to supply to video call all these used to supply to video call all these people. The reason is they would people. The reason is they would probably have done a much better job in probably have done a much better job in their own factory but they had all these their own factory but they had all these problems themselves. They were too big. problems themselves. They were too big. So they farmed out their uh um you know So they farmed out their uh um you know operations to the people. So it was operations to the people. So it was always the the you know that Ronald always the the you know that Ronald Kos's theory of firms you do in your Kos's theory of firms you do in your firm whatever you are really good at and firm whatever you are really good at and whatever you're not what wherever you whatever you're not what wherever you don't benefit you do it outside and that don't benefit you do it outside and that never operated it the you didn't do never operated it the you didn't do anything in your firm because you're anything in your firm because you're good at it it just because somebody else good at it it just because somebody else couldn't do it in their firm that's why couldn't do it in their firm that's why a lot of inefficiency just accumulated a lot of inefficiency just accumulated in the system then somebody woke up a in the system then somebody woke up a few years ago and realized that hey you few years ago and realized that hey you know we need to have MSMES and try so know we need to have MSMES and try so now to be honest we have a lot of uh so now to be honest we have a lot of uh so one of the things that we used to battle one of the things that we used to battle is uh octry right so I don't know if is uh octry right so I don't know if people know listeners know what octra is people know listeners know what octra is octry was a tax at the toll gates of the octry was a tax at the toll gates of the city at the entrance to the city city at the entrance to the city whatever uh material you bring in and whatever uh material you bring in and Bombay had a periciously high 5% so 5% Bombay had a periciously high 5% so 5% of the value a typical truck would like of the value a typical truck would like a few lakhs. So 5% of that you had to a few lakhs. So 5% of that you had to pay and it did not matter what your pay and it did not matter what your invoice said. The octroy officer could invoice said. The octroy officer could independently assess its value. So it independently assess its value. So it was like a open invitation to extract. was like a open invitation to extract. So and you could so what typically So and you could so what typically people would do it was like a 1 lak people would do it was like a 1 lak rupee material you would come with a rupee material you would come with a 10,000 rupee invoice that guy says no 10,000 rupee invoice that guy says no way this is 10,000 rupees is actually 10 way this is 10,000 rupees is actually 10 lakhs. you haggle whatever and you pay lakhs. you haggle whatever and you pay the guy the you settle out and you pay the guy the you settle out and you pay the guy a bribe uh which is the the guy a bribe uh which is the difference and that that's how it's also difference and that that's how it's also hugely inefficient so there would be hugely inefficient so there would be huge cues piled up outside octroy mines huge cues piled up outside octroy mines and you get calls so your material is and you get calls so your material is coming you order some special kind of coming you order some special kind of steel from somewhere has come and you steel from somewhere has come and you got some super uh unreasonable guy at got some super uh unreasonable guy at the entry who says is that uh hell no the entry who says is that uh hell no I'm not accepting this uh evaluation and I'm not accepting this uh evaluation and at 2:00 in the morning you have to go at 2:00 in the morning you have to go and plead because the octra guy knows and plead because the octra guy knows that if you come you have the because that if you come you have the because you're the owner of the company you have you're the owner of the company you have the power to sign if he harasses you the power to sign if he harasses you enough he'll get a enough he'll get a few all that went away when GST came all few all that went away when GST came all these taxes so that smoothed out these taxes so that smoothed out immeasurably just one side story there. immeasurably just one side story there. Interesting side story. So do you know Interesting side story. So do you know that when Octai went away also the dance that when Octai went away also the dance bars went away. Have you observed that bars went away. Have you observed that all the dance bars in Bombay were around all the dance bars in Bombay were around Octaka, one at Mir Road, one at Mulund Octaka, one at Mir Road, one at Mulund and places like that. So all the cash and places like that. So all the cash that was going as a bribe would be spent that was going as a bribe would be spent in all these dance bars. Oh my god. In in all these dance bars. Oh my god. In Bombay because all the officers would go Bombay because all the officers would go and enjoy that. So the entire circuit and enjoy that. So the entire circuit was that if you see that entire circuit was that if you see that entire circuit the cash will be spent over there in the cash will be spent over there in those places and once that octra went those places and once that octra went the entire that industry that entire the entire that industry that entire industry collapsed. Classic example of industry collapsed. Classic example of the seen and the unseen seen and unseen the seen and the unseen seen and unseen absolute seen and the unseen. Yes ma'am. absolute seen and the unseen. Yes ma'am. Go ahead. Continue. Yeah. So that Go ahead. Continue. Yeah. So that improved. Then uh back in the day you improved. Then uh back in the day you would have random people, factory would have random people, factory inspectors, labor inspectors, all kinds inspectors, labor inspectors, all kinds of the factory inspector is the most of the factory inspector is the most useless guy. He comes he's supposed to useless guy. He comes he's supposed to be in charge of your he's supposed to be in charge of your he's supposed to certify the safety of your factory. He certify the safety of your factory. He comes and he gives you a certificate comes and he gives you a certificate essentially says that you are essentially says that you are responsible for the safety of so my responsible for the safety of so my question is what have you done? What question is what have you done? What have you contributed? Nothing. There are have you contributed? Nothing. There are no observations nothing nothing. So no observations nothing nothing. So those kind of things and they used to those kind of things and they used to basically you know come for whatever basically you know come for whatever little one good thing I would have to little one good thing I would have to say about all these general people who say about all these general people who would come for bribes and all they were would come for bribes and all they were very good at assessing very good at assessing uh you know what people could bear so uh you know what people could bear so and they were very humane also. So if and they were very humane also. So if they thought that you know like a,000 they thought that you know like a,000 rupees would kill you they would take rupees would kill you they would take 500 rupees and go. So all that humanity 500 rupees and go. So all that humanity and you know the the the normal peak of and you know the the the normal peak of human kindness was there but uh overall human kindness was there but uh overall it made for a very inefficient but it's it made for a very inefficient but it's kind of self-interest also. I mean if kind of self-interest also. I mean if a,000 rupees can kill you and he takes a,000 rupees can kill you and he takes a,000 then the next time he gets a,000 then the next time he gets nothing. No, I mean I many years ago I did an No, I mean I many years ago I did an episode with our friend Madu Manon who episode with our friend Madu Manon who told me about how in the restaurant told me about how in the restaurant business he'd have to deal with um I business he'd have to deal with um I think if I'm not mistaken he would give think if I'm not mistaken he would give up to 40 bribes a month and the and he up to 40 bribes a month and the and he would always be breaking the law because would always be breaking the law because the excise department would insist that the excise department would insist that there can only be one ent entrance to there can only be one ent entrance to the restaurant because they want to the restaurant because they want to monitor the flow of uh uh alcohol and monitor the flow of uh uh alcohol and the fire department would say there have the fire department would say there have to be multiple entrance for obvious to be multiple entrance for obvious safety reasons. So no matter what safety reasons. So no matter what happens, you're breaking the law and happens, you're breaking the law and you're basically bribing both people and you're basically bribing both people and it's just a sign of uh and you know most it's just a sign of uh and you know most people they don't they normalize this people they don't they normalize this and they don't realize the cost that the and they don't realize the cost that the extractive state takes like whenever extractive state takes like whenever you're stuck something is stuck at the you're stuck something is stuck at the octroy naka all the time and I remember octroy naka all the time and I remember vaguely in Mir Sharma's book restart vaguely in Mir Sharma's book restart there was this anecdote about how uh if there was this anecdote about how uh if I remember correctly it was if you I remember correctly it was if you wanted to send something from Hyderabad wanted to send something from Hyderabad to Chennai or Chennai to Bangalore or to Chennai or Chennai to Bangalore or whatever two cities and neighboring whatever two cities and neighboring states it cheaper to do so via Paris states it cheaper to do so via Paris than across the state borders because uh than across the state borders because uh you know just the friction and the delay you know just the friction and the delay and the bribes and everything would and the bribes and everything would actually kill you. And who paid the actually kill you. And who paid the price for that? We paid the price for price for that? We paid the price for that. The companies paid the price for that. The companies paid the price for that. The consumers paid the price for that. The consumers paid the price for that. Society paid the price for that. that. Society paid the price for that. And um and of course some things are And um and of course some things are better but many things are not and the better but many things are not and the mindset remains. mindset remains. mindset remains. I'd like to tell you though I take take I'd like to tell you though I take take this opportunity a longish and slightly this opportunity a longish and slightly irrelevant anecdote but the good part is irrelevant anecdote but the good part is the octry guy gets his comeuppance in the octry guy gets his comeuppance in this anecdote. So the here's what this anecdote. So the here's what happened. I had a friend who used to he happened. I had a friend who used to he used to make blanks for uh gear blanks used to make blanks for uh gear blanks for a automotive company. He would also for a automotive company. He would also supply odds and end little things to you supply odds and end little things to you do job work for BRC. do job work for BRC. So he had got a certificate from the BRC So he had got a certificate from the BRC saying that this gentleman this saying that this gentleman this particular company is uh whatever a particular company is uh whatever a supplier registered supplier to the BRC supplier registered supplier to the BRC and the material that is coming in and and the material that is coming in and out is exempt from Octroy because it's a out is exempt from Octroy because it's a BRC. So on this obviously that was only BRC. So on this obviously that was only for the BRC material because on the for the BRC material because on the strength of that paper this guy used to strength of that paper this guy used to smuggle all kinds of material. So he had smuggle all kinds of material. So he had one unit outside the Octray uh uh limits one unit outside the Octray uh uh limits and one inside and then materials to go and one inside and then materials to go back and forth and he was merily using back and forth and he was merily using this certificate and getting back. One this certificate and getting back. One day he was caught by a like you know day he was caught by a like you know lower down the oct inspectors wouldn't lower down the oct inspectors wouldn't really they would see a government car really they would see a government car you know ashok stam stamp and something you know ashok stam stamp and something written and you know so they used to written and you know so they used to just let him go but a senior guy he said just let him go but a senior guy he said nothing knowing it says BRC material nothing knowing it says BRC material what is there in your car and he's what is there in your car and he's smuggling it all in his personal car so smuggling it all in his personal car so he says sir it is BRC material says open he says sir it is BRC material says open the hatch show me and it's patently not the hatch show me and it's patently not all gear blanks. Any idiot can see there all gear blanks. Any idiot can see there is not a beer. There's a a whole uh is not a beer. There's a a whole uh trunk full of that. So quick thinking trunk full of that. So quick thinking guy. What he does is he gives him the guy. What he does is he gives him the keys. He says sub you open the dicky keys. He says sub you open the dicky yourself. He stands goes uh 10 15 ft yourself. He stands goes uh 10 15 ft away covers his crotch with both his away covers his crotch with both his hands. Okay. And he hands. Okay. And he says and this guy is you know he says says and this guy is you know he says why you standing like that? He says no why you standing like that? He says no it's BRC material is radioactive. It it's BRC material is radioactive. It affects affects affects your you know. Yeah. So you know this know this know this guys that go to hell take guys that go to hell take it. So yeah sometimes it was possible to it. So yeah sometimes it was possible to defeat the defeat the defeat the oct. This is an absolutely magnificent oct. This is an absolutely magnificent uh sort of story. uh sort of story. Is there any estimate of the damage that Is there any estimate of the damage that such policies and uh such an extractive such policies and uh such an extractive state has actually actually uh you know state has actually actually uh you know done to the economy not in terms of how done to the economy not in terms of how much money they've extracted but the much money they've extracted but the larger cost which I guess one proxy for larger cost which I guess one proxy for it would be that in western countries it would be that in western countries how many micro industries become small how many micro industries become small and then become medium and what is the and then become medium and what is the progression that you would ideally progression that you would ideally expect in a healthy economy and to what expect in a healthy economy and to what extent has that not happened in India. extent has that not happened in India. Yeah. And therefore is there a way to Yeah. And therefore is there a way to sort of estimate what is the damage sort of estimate what is the damage perhaps not in numbers but just in terms perhaps not in numbers but just in terms of you know technically almost around uh of you know technically almost around uh 30 to 40% of your MSM should be in the 30 to 40% of your MSM should be in the small segment and then so micro can be small segment and then so micro can be let's say around 50% around 30% to 35% let's say around 50% around 30% to 35% can be small and then the medium around can be small and then the medium around 15%. Now we have hardly 5% of medium and 15%. Now we have hardly 5% of medium and that is all cost basically because that is all cost basically because that's the business that you have lost that's the business that you have lost that's the business that you that's the that's the business that you that's the opportunity to get people out of poverty opportunity to get people out of poverty that you have lost and uh it has always that you have lost and uh it has always been like this that so typically your uh been like this that so typically your uh uh PF I think until uh 20 employees you uh PF I think until uh 20 employees you can't have you need not to have PF can't have you need not to have PF otherwise the PF is mandatory now uh otherwise the PF is mandatory now uh people would want to keep it at 15 people would want to keep it at 15 people or 20 people or 19 people not people or 20 people or 19 people not even 20 19 people and you create five even 20 19 people and you create five different companies of 19 people each different companies of 19 people each and then you solve that problem of PF and then you solve that problem of PF inspector coming to your factory or any inspector coming to your factory or any other. So this entire mentality of other. So this entire mentality of remaining uh small uh nobody really remaining uh small uh nobody really looked at the kind of a benefit that one looked at the kind of a benefit that one would get. Everybody looked at uh by would get. Everybody looked at uh by remaining small how can we beat the uh remaining small how can we beat the uh the system how can we beat the uh the system how can we beat the uh government and uh kind of continue see government and uh kind of continue see also uh in India when we see uh very also uh in India when we see uh very relevance hardly maybe 2 three or 4% uh relevance hardly maybe 2 three or 4% uh businesses really really came into businesses really really came into market with a thought process okay there market with a thought process okay there is a gap in the uh market and then we is a gap in the uh market and then we can fill up that gap everybody generally can fill up that gap everybody generally in India comes because they know in India comes because they know something and they are uh like not very something and they are uh like not very uh I would say uh they don't like rules uh I would say uh they don't like rules they want to try something on their own they want to try something on their own they know something well and then they they know something well and then they get out and start business and then they get out and start business and then they start figuring out how who can I sell start figuring out how who can I sell what can I make which people want and what can I make which people want and then they start building one over other then they start building one over other so it's always one story on another so it's always one story on another story and another story that very story and another story that very incremental approach is what we have had incremental approach is what we have had so that structure is uh not present at so that structure is uh not present at any point of time to start and because any point of time to start and because of that structure not being there uh of that structure not being there uh that smallness basically helps. So, so that smallness basically helps. So, so you try and figure out what you can do you try and figure out what you can do and if you hit let's say 5 10 crores 20 and if you hit let's say 5 10 crores 20 crores revenue and that helps you take crores revenue and that helps you take something like say 50 60 70 lakhs people something like say 50 60 70 lakhs people generally remain happy in that people generally remain happy in that people really don't see beyond because that really don't see beyond because that entire journey has been so difficult so entire journey has been so difficult so excruciating that you do this and you excruciating that you do this and you stay comfortable and at no point of time stay comfortable and at no point of time there has been talk that yes you become there has been talk that yes you become big this last five years 10 years we are big this last five years 10 years we are seeing uh India opened up in 1992 and we seeing uh India opened up in 1992 and we started seeing what it could do for started seeing what it could do for choice, what it could do for becoming choice, what it could do for becoming bigger, what it could do for having bigger, what it could do for having prosperity. But until then we were not prosperity. But until then we were not at all there and remaining small also at all there and remaining small also helped us because that could also avoid helped us because that could also avoid us having unions because unions the us having unions because unions the moment you become a certain size then moment you become a certain size then the unions will come in and unions at the unions will come in and unions at that point of time the unions were all that point of time the unions were all very combative which means that it is very combative which means that it is either you give them the money that they either you give them the money that they expect or the companies closed down and expect or the companies closed down and we have seen so many of companies the we have seen so many of companies the companies in Bombay the factories in companies in Bombay the factories in Bombay closed down because of that Bombay closed down because of that unionism at that point of time. So I unionism at that point of time. So I think remaining small is I think a think remaining small is I think a mindset. It is a conditioning of mindset. It is a conditioning of entrepreneurs in India that was done entrepreneurs in India that was done over a period of time uh as policies and over a period of time uh as policies and policies and the entire natural policies and the entire natural environment that was there that made us environment that was there that made us think in small. It never gave us any think in small. It never gave us any opening towards key oh can be we can do opening towards key oh can be we can do something different better because there something different better because there were too many fears. And what happens is were too many fears. And what happens is that once you start building a company that once you start building a company and you start creating certain assets and you start creating certain assets then you want to protect those assets. then you want to protect those assets. So you are looking for existential So you are looking for existential threats and if the union is an threats and if the union is an existential threat don't do it. If a existential threat don't do it. If a government policy or government official government policy or government official is an existential threat don't do it. So is an existential threat don't do it. So you start not doing things which will you start not doing things which will make you big. So that has always so it make you big. So that has always so it is more about a mindset. But I think is more about a mindset. But I think that's changing over last 15 20 25 years that's changing over last 15 20 25 years we are seeing that change on the policy we are seeing that change on the policy side. this new definition of MSME where side. this new definition of MSME where 10 crores uh 100 crores and 500 crores 10 crores uh 100 crores and 500 crores these are recent developments I think these are recent developments I think they came in 2020 not before that so they came in 2020 not before that so earlier than that we were all wanting to earlier than that we were all wanting to be a small and remain small only be a small and remain small only speaking of uh unions can I tell speaking of uh unions can I tell unrelated please amusing story so unrelated please amusing story so there's one uh we are big fans and MSME there's one uh we are big fans and MSME it became big this company and uh the uh it became big this company and uh the uh you you you There was a strong union and uh it was There was a strong union and uh it was um you know in in it was the these um you know in in it was the these unions they were called Dr. Union. unions they were called Dr. Union. Doctranchi union means tatas tatas samad Doctranchi union means tatas tatas samad and they were the most cariest. So this and they were the most cariest. So this company got Dr. Ranchi Yun and the company got Dr. Ranchi Yun and the driver. So this the boss man by had a driver. So this the boss man by had a driver who expected because he was the driver who expected because he was the boss's driver he expected an boss's driver he expected an unreasonably high unreasonably high unreasonably high salary. HR department said you know you salary. HR department said you know you can't give they had a policy of giving can't give they had a policy of giving the same increments for everyone can't the same increments for everyone can't give you. So this guy said I'll teach give you. So this guy said I'll teach this guy a lesson. Now because it was this guy a lesson. Now because it was union he he would basically stop uh not union he he would basically stop uh not turn up. So he he would know if there's turn up. So he he would know if there's an important meeting boss had to go an important meeting boss had to go somewhere just not turn up on that day somewhere just not turn up on that day and uh if he sort of you know if they and uh if he sort of you know if they tried to put another driver there the tried to put another driver there the union guy would go and complain and the union guy would go and complain and the reason given was this guy had a huge reason given was this guy had a huge headache. So he had a terrible headache headache. So he had a terrible headache he couldn't come. So because it was a he couldn't come. So because it was a medical ground you uh he couldn't and he medical ground you uh he couldn't and he come with a certificate also a local guy come with a certificate also a local guy would say a terrible headache he can't would say a terrible headache he can't there's no way of getting around this there's no way of getting around this and that guy was the poor MD would and that guy was the poor MD would happily give him also but the HR people happily give him also but the HR people are saying that sir if you give this guy are saying that sir if you give this guy this all the other drivers all the it'll this all the other drivers all the it'll be a cascading we'll we can't afford it be a cascading we'll we can't afford it and they appointed one uh consultant who and they appointed one uh consultant who happened to be a friend of mine and that happened to be a friend of mine and that consultant solved it in his father consultant solved it in his father actually solved it in a very good way. actually solved it in a very good way. So next time this happened he you know So next time this happened he you know so they had one uh they this guy had a so they had one uh they this guy had a friend who ran a friend who ran a hospital it took him into confidence hospital it took him into confidence driver said I have a headache I can't driver said I have a headache I can't come so they went to that fellow's house come so they went to that fellow's house with an with an with an ambulance picked him up physically ambulance picked him up physically picked him up put him into the ambulance picked him up put him into the ambulance rushed him siren screening to this rushed him siren screening to this friend's hospital wheeled him straight friend's hospital wheeled him straight in the operating theater there were four in the operating theater there were four or five doctors lights facing I don't or five doctors lights facing I don't know if you've seen old style operations know if you've seen old style operations this huge lights everything and just so this huge lights everything and just so this guy is like flammox he doesn't know this guy is like flammox he doesn't know what happened and the doctor comes with what happened and the doctor comes with the largest pair of shears he can find the largest pair of shears he can find and he tells him that you have a very and he tells him that you have a very serious brain sort of disease in your serious brain sort of disease in your head and uh you know we have to cut it head and uh you know we have to cut it up and there's a 50/50 chance you may up and there's a 50/50 chance you may not make it. But if you don't do it, not make it. But if you don't do it, you'll not make it at all. You're going you'll not make it at all. You're going to die in any case. So this guy is going to die in any case. So this guy is going to put the mask onto you. Then you will to put the mask onto you. Then you will not remember anything. And I'm going to not remember anything. And I'm going to do the surgery. And this guy started do the surgery. And this guy started wailing and screaming, "No, no, no." And wailing and screaming, "No, no, no." And he confessed that he was just making all he confessed that he was just making all this up. He doesn't really have. And this up. He doesn't really have. And they had their whatever recorders or they had their whatever recorders or whatever. And that was evidence enough whatever. And that was evidence enough they they could fire this guy. So this they they could fire this guy. So this is the extent to which you had to go if is the extent to which you had to go if you want to you want to neutralize a union baji back in that neutralize a union baji back in that day. Yeah. But then I think there is a day. Yeah. But then I think there is a huge change in that because a couple of huge change in that because a couple of years back in Nasi when I was on couple years back in Nasi when I was on couple of companies board uh at one of the of companies board uh at one of the companies uh we received a notice uh companies uh we received a notice uh that uh this is a new union and then that uh this is a new union and then they are forming and then there are they are forming and then there are going to be they are seeing that there going to be they are seeing that there is some wrong practices are going on in is some wrong practices are going on in your company and that random letter had your company and that random letter had gone to almost around 70 80 companies in gone to almost around 70 80 companies in uh that industrial area and uh that guy uh that industrial area and uh that guy is going to form the union and this is is going to form the union and this is going to be the new opinion and all that going to be the new opinion and all that and uh that guy was some random uh and uh that guy was some random uh gangster gunda type person and he has gangster gunda type person and he has been wanting to kind of mobilize and been wanting to kind of mobilize and trying to play on basically laborers trying to play on basically laborers mentality that yeah I will give you mentality that yeah I will give you better rise why why are you living with better rise why why are you living with this 10% rise I can give you better rise this 10% rise I can give you better rise something like that and then all these something like that and then all these entrepreneurs then basically met the entrepreneurs then basically met the local MP and MLA and all that and said local MP and MLA and all that and said that what is this going on you want us that what is this going on you want us to do business or not your sign no to do business or not your sign no problem if you want don't want us to do problem if you want don't want us to do business we'll move our businesses from business we'll move our businesses from here. Now every politician has here. Now every politician has understood now earlier they used to understood now earlier they used to support the labor union. Now they know support the labor union. Now they know that they have to support the industry that they have to support the industry because industry brings prosperity that because industry brings prosperity that brings basically happiness to people and brings basically happiness to people and that brings them votes because everybody that brings them votes because everybody doing good is better. That particular doing good is better. That particular the that ga who was trying to get that the that ga who was trying to get that union over there was sent a notice by union over there was sent a notice by police. So police came police said police. So police came police said nothing like this we will not allow it. nothing like this we will not allow it. He was allowed external notice. So for He was allowed external notice. So for next six 60 days something like that he next six 60 days something like that he cannot come in that area periphery area cannot come in that area periphery area they put a order and said okay if you they put a order and said okay if you are basically found you will be arrested are basically found you will be arrested and put behind the bars. So this change and put behind the bars. So this change in last 20 years is amazing that where in last 20 years is amazing that where the the the basically the uh executive the the the basically the uh executive branch where the police everybody is branch where the police everybody is trying to support you if somebody's trying to support you if somebody's coming and wanting to extract money from coming and wanting to extract money from you or exploit you because under the you or exploit you because under the garb of being union this will not be garb of being union this will not be there. This I think this was unarded of there. This I think this was unarded of 30 years 40 years back. This was unard 30 years 40 years back. This was unard of in fact this sets the stage for the of in fact this sets the stage for the you know next part of uh the discussion you know next part of uh the discussion that we want to have is now the that we want to have is now the environment is pretty decent. True environment is pretty decent. True formemes now you can start anme practice formemes now you can start anme practice your trade do whatever you want to do your trade do whatever you want to do without fear of being chied by very uh without fear of being chied by very uh you know unfair or very um sort of you know unfair or very um sort of invasive kind of policy. Inspector Raj I invasive kind of policy. Inspector Raj I think is something which is bit away think is something which is bit away that is not there. So that in fact you that is not there. So that in fact you used to be worried about some labor used to be worried about some labor officer will come some excise officer officer will come some excise officer will come va that is not there I think will come va that is not there I think you can if if you do a absolute clean you can if if you do a absolute clean business uh all money in coming in in business uh all money in coming in in check I think that the entire system is check I think that the entire system is great now uh then you don't have those great now uh then you don't have those challenges now the challenges are more challenges now the challenges are more from the policy perspective the from the policy perspective the infrastructure perspective the finance infrastructure perspective the finance perspective the the challenges are perspective the the challenges are different those challenges are gone. I different those challenges are gone. I think what we used to see 30 years back, think what we used to see 30 years back, 40 years back, uh let's say 25 years 40 years back, uh let's say 25 years back, those challenges are gone now. I back, those challenges are gone now. I think the new challenges are there and think the new challenges are there and these new challenges are these new challenges are again in comparison because you are again in comparison because you are seeing the world moving differently and seeing the world moving differently and uh we are not going there and what can uh we are not going there and what can be done for that and those are becoming be done for that and those are becoming the new challenges. That's what I feel. the new challenges. That's what I feel. Yeah. Yeah. And I think it's important Yeah. Yeah. And I think it's important to sort of make the point that I keep to sort of make the point that I keep talking about that people will use the talking about that people will use the term informal economy as if it is a bad term informal economy as if it is a bad thing as if these are people breaking thing as if these are people breaking the law and these are shady businesses the law and these are shady businesses happening and the truth is absolutely happening and the truth is absolutely not. The truth is that often there was not. The truth is that often there was no way but to be in the informal economy no way but to be in the informal economy because because of the tremendous cost because because of the tremendous cost and friction of dealing with the and friction of dealing with the extractive stake state and being part of extractive stake state and being part of the formal economy that way you know the formal economy that way you know like I want to run a business I'm doing like I want to run a business I'm doing good for people that is the only way I good for people that is the only way I can make money but if the headache and can make money but if the headache and the majari is so much that uh you simply the majari is so much that uh you simply cannot survive true then you choose to cannot survive true then you choose to stay outside the ambit of the light I stay outside the ambit of the light I could tell you the amusing uh thing So could tell you the amusing uh thing So back in the back in the day you couldn't import anything at all. day you couldn't import anything at all. Okay. Then after this 1991 reforms there Okay. Then after this 1991 reforms there was a category most things moved into was a category most things moved into that category called open general that category called open general license OL. So you could import things license OL. So you could import things payment of duty but you could import you payment of duty but you could import you didn't have to take an import license. didn't have to take an import license. So this OGL became the code. So uh if So this OGL became the code. So uh if you wanted to do something so people ask you wanted to do something so people ask you you you sub legal but I think we know that story of legal but I think we know that story of Infosys. No, Infosys wanted to so that Infosys. No, Infosys wanted to so that time the fax machines were the important time the fax machines were the important things and these I think Infosys guys things and these I think Infosys guys were doing business. So they wanted to were doing business. So they wanted to import a fax machine and that fax import a fax machine and that fax machine they asked that why do you need machine they asked that why do you need fax machine? Because fax machine is fax machine? Because fax machine is needed only by the print and news media. needed only by the print and news media. So basically they will get fax machine So basically they will get fax machine you cannot have the license. So then you cannot have the license. So then they said that how the business we are they said that how the business we are doing the business and how we doing the business and how we communicate fast and we need to give communicate fast and we need to give responses and all that and then okay responses and all that and then okay fine okay we you can get one fax machine fine okay we you can get one fax machine and then they had to give the what fax and then they had to give the what fax machine model that you have to give. So machine model that you have to give. So they gave some model and all that and it they gave some model and all that and it took almost some 12 months or 18 months took almost some 12 months or 18 months or something like that for getting that or something like that for getting that license and by that time that particular license and by that time that particular model had gone out of date and the new model had gone out of date and the new model had come and getting that new model had come and getting that new model machine was a challenge for them. model machine was a challenge for them. I think we have seen those kind of I think we have seen those kind of horrors. There's a Montik Singh Alwalia horrors. There's a Montik Singh Alwalia in his book talks about something Naran in his book talks about something Naran Morti told him that basically in Morti told him that basically in 1983 Infosys wanted to import a data 1983 Infosys wanted to import a data general MV8000 computer with three general MV8000 computer with three removable disc drives and a capacity of removable disc drives and a capacity of 200 MB. So months and months went by 200 MB. So months and months went by they made many trips to New Delhi. they made many trips to New Delhi. Finally they got the import license Finally they got the import license right but by the time they got the right but by the time they got the license there was now a new disc drive license there was now a new disc drive with a capacity of 300 MB which was 30% with a capacity of 300 MB which was 30% cheaper. And obviously now they wanted cheaper. And obviously now they wanted this and it is cheaper and it can do this and it is cheaper and it can do more but no you know the the license has more but no you know the the license has a model number and so for again months a model number and so for again months you're making visits to get a new you're making visits to get a new license with a new model number that license with a new model number that they want and uh you know the orthogonal they want and uh you know the orthogonal uh amusement in the story is key 200 MB uh amusement in the story is key 200 MB to 300 MB. So I I I I have a So I I I I have a question. You speak about the question. You speak about the environment changing and my question is environment changing and my question is one lay out for me the ways in which the one lay out for me the ways in which the environment changed in terms of the old environment changed in terms of the old challenges which are no longer there and challenges which are no longer there and the new challenges which have come up the new challenges which have come up and also tell me about how this affects and also tell me about how this affects the mindsets of small entrepreneurs the mindsets of small entrepreneurs because what I would assume is that because what I would assume is that there is a lag in the environment there is a lag in the environment changing and the mindset changing changing and the mindset changing because there'll be a certain kind of because there'll be a certain kind of fear and distrust and uh diffidence uh fear and distrust and uh diffidence uh which will be part of the mindset uh which will be part of the mindset uh which will take longer to adapt and to which will take longer to adapt and to change where because you know the policy change where because you know the policy environment is also unpredictable. environment is also unpredictable. You're You're You're wondering can there you know can wondering can there you know can inspectors land up again etc etc. So inspectors land up again etc etc. So give me a sense of that. You know we give me a sense of that. You know we have this u human thing u of the fight have this u human thing u of the fight and flight fight or flight response. So and flight fight or flight response. So anything so we sitting here and let us anything so we sitting here and let us say there's a a cupboard outside this say there's a a cupboard outside this room falls and there's a loud noise all room falls and there's a loud noise all of us we know that you know whatever of us we know that you know whatever that was it's it's not dangerous just that was it's it's not dangerous just something fell and it it's not even something fell and it it's not even going to but all of us if you measure going to but all of us if you measure your heart rate it'll go up a little bit your heart rate it'll go up a little bit though how a cupboard falls is also though how a cupboard falls is also something I'm interested in because how something I'm interested in because how do cupboards fall do cupboards fall how do cupboards fall if uh people like like we are sitting if uh people like like we are sitting for the audience we're sitting in amidst for the audience we're sitting in amidst very well stocked very well stocked library and it's absolutely groaning library and it's absolutely groaning with books. So, it's not hard to imagine with books. So, it's not hard to imagine one of these uh cupboards. Fing. Yeah. one of these uh cupboards. Fing. Yeah. But then we recorded a solo episode But then we recorded a solo episode here. on the 27th floor and at one point here. on the 27th floor and at one point we freaked out because Narendra looked we freaked out because Narendra looked outside the window and I saw a look of outside the window and I saw a look of shock on his face and I followed his shock on his face and I followed his gaze and looked outside the window and gaze and looked outside the window and there was a man there and we're on the there was a man there and we're on the 27th floor and a window cleaning was 27th floor and a window cleaning was happening and there was scaffolding and happening and there was scaffolding and all of that but we actually so it was a all of that but we actually so it was a podcast with a live audience of one podcast with a live audience of one dangling uh you know a long long way dangling uh you know a long long way above the air. Okay. So yeah, my uh above the air. Okay. So yeah, my uh point is that uh because of you know point is that uh because of you know that you instinctively go into the that you instinctively go into the chalkboard and because so this this chalkboard and because so this this apparently works uh in uh you know when apparently works uh in uh you know when you go on a roller coaster the body is you go on a roller coaster the body is scared right but uh uh but but the mind scared right but uh uh but but the mind isn't because mind knows it's safe. isn't because mind knows it's safe. Yeah. So you go down and up and you know Yeah. So you go down and up and you know the whole thing and your uh body is the whole thing and your uh body is doing all those you know putting all doing all those you know putting all those hormones out and all the scare and those hormones out and all the scare and and the mind is basically enjoying that and the mind is basically enjoying that rush of hormones because of the safety rush of hormones because of the safety thing. So in the good old days that thing. So in the good old days that safety was not there. So the the guy who safety was not there. So the the guy who came round to your business genuinely came round to your business genuinely had the power to put you out of had the power to put you out of business. Now it is not. So, so we are business. Now it is not. So, so we are ready to sort of experience the thrill ready to sort of experience the thrill of now going up. The problem is the that of now going up. The problem is the that flight or fight response still kicks in. flight or fight response still kicks in. Whenever there the slightest problem, Whenever there the slightest problem, you automatically try to huddle yourself you automatically try to huddle yourself down and save whatever you have. Uh down and save whatever you have. Uh that's something that needs to go out of that's something that needs to go out of the MSME space. Uh to give you an the MSME space. Uh to give you an example, I have a 10 cror rupee example, I have a 10 cror rupee turnover, let's say. So I'm earning turnover, let's say. So I'm earning about a couple of crores per about a couple of crores per animal after all expenses and all you animal after all expenses and all you know taxes and whatever I'm easily know taxes and whatever I'm easily taking home a cr of money in India 1 cr taking home a cr of money in India 1 cr rupees peranom is you are princely you rupees peranom is you are princely you can take your trips to whatever Japan can take your trips to whatever Japan England England England everything you don't want to jeopardize everything you don't want to jeopardize that 1 cr you don't care that 1 cr it's that 1 cr you don't care that 1 cr it's a loss aversion that's happening you a loss aversion that's happening you don't want to jeopardize that 1 cr in don't want to jeopardize that 1 cr in favor of earning 10 crores more. You are favor of earning 10 crores more. You are like who the hell cares if I have 1 cr like who the hell cares if I have 1 cr or 10 year and you consciously decide or 10 year and you consciously decide not to grow but times have changed. not to grow but times have changed. There are two ways in which one is your There are two ways in which one is your 1 cr itself because world is changing so 1 cr itself because world is changing so fast geop your business is not constant fast geop your business is not constant for we all of us have evolved assuming for we all of us have evolved assuming that L&amp; is going to give you that L&amp; is going to give you subcontracting orders forever. L&amp;T used subcontracting orders forever. L&amp;T used to give a lot of make a lot of switch to give a lot of make a lot of switch gear give a lot of orders to switch gear gear give a lot of orders to switch gear vendors. L&amp;T is more or less exited out vendors. L&amp;T is more or less exited out of the switch gear business. It doesn't of the switch gear business. It doesn't make sense for LN to make switch gear make sense for LN to make switch gear anymore. What has happened to all those anymore. What has happened to all those vendors? They are basically out of vendors? They are basically out of business. They they're clever people. business. They they're clever people. They would have found something else to They would have found something else to do. But you cannot rely on that. So it do. But you cannot rely on that. So it now the imperatives have changed. In now the imperatives have changed. In order to protect your 1 cr you must see order to protect your 1 cr you must see that you make 10 crores. You have to that you make 10 crores. You have to grow and that's where you have to grow and that's where you have to somehow conquer that fight of light. somehow conquer that fight of light. Yeah. So that's what I'm seeing that in Yeah. So that's what I'm seeing that in the market uh see the external the market uh see the external environment is such that what you have environment is such that what you have is not at all kind of protected. You is not at all kind of protected. You need to move, you need to change, you need to move, you need to change, you need to figure out ways to do same thing need to figure out ways to do same thing better every year. And that efficiency better every year. And that efficiency see the biggest thing that happened is see the biggest thing that happened is that uh we saw a whole lot of the entire that uh we saw a whole lot of the entire 1980s to 2010 those 30 years the China 1980s to 2010 those 30 years the China really changed the entire scene and we really changed the entire scene and we have seen products basically picked up have seen products basically picked up from China marketed in India and brands from China marketed in India and brands like Lava and all those phones they they like Lava and all those phones they they put some great advertising of 10 20 30 put some great advertising of 10 20 30 crores and imported stuff from China and crores and imported stuff from China and became a 200 cr 300 cr companies in just became a 200 cr 300 cr companies in just one year. Yeah. One one one two years one year. Yeah. One one one two years they became that. So anybody can they became that. So anybody can actually destabilize your business if actually destabilize your business if you do not remain on your toes. So that you do not remain on your toes. So that resilience that being alert is the new resilience that being alert is the new thing. So now you are not worried about thing. So now you are not worried about whether somebody's forming a union in whether somebody's forming a union in your company. You are worried about is your company. You are worried about is there a new competitor coming in on the there a new competitor coming in on the horizon and who can get me throw me out horizon and who can get me throw me out of business. So so how do I remain on of business. So so how do I remain on top of things? So I have seen last 20 top of things? So I have seen last 20 years or 20 25 years a lot more Indians years or 20 25 years a lot more Indians go to international exhibitions and see go to international exhibitions and see what is happening over there. The huge what is happening over there. The huge huge yeah you would not have seen so huge yeah you would not have seen so many Indians but now if you go to any many Indians but now if you go to any exhibition you go to Hanover you go to exhibition you go to Hanover you go to Frankfurt you go to Dubai and you'll see Frankfurt you go to Dubai and you'll see a lot of Indians a lot of Chinese and a lot of Indians a lot of Chinese and everybody is like going and trying to everybody is like going and trying to see. So that is a welcome change that see. So that is a welcome change that you want to know what is happening in you want to know what is happening in the world. You want to bring those the world. You want to bring those things back to India. You want to kind things back to India. You want to kind of integrate them into your businesses of integrate them into your businesses and you want to improve your businesses. and you want to improve your businesses. I think that's a huge welcome change. I think that's a huge welcome change. That's what I'm seeing more. I'm seeing That's what I'm seeing more. I'm seeing more people going to so in India finance more people going to so in India finance is still really a big challenge. uh we is still really a big challenge. uh we know that almost around 530 billion is know that almost around 530 billion is the gap for the finance. So so the the the gap for the finance. So so the the kind of uh that working capital and kind of uh that working capital and overall capital need for MSME is almost overall capital need for MSME is almost around $820 billion and what we are around $820 billion and what we are catering to is around $290300 billion catering to is around $290300 billion the rest of almost around 520 billion is the rest of almost around 520 billion is the gap that's RBI R Swami Natan I think the gap that's RBI R Swami Natan I think uh report or he had given lot of uh report or he had given lot of lectures on which he has been talking lectures on which he has been talking about it. This gap is because uh in about it. This gap is because uh in India I think uh uh not everybody has India I think uh uh not everybody has been clean when it comes to the loan been clean when it comes to the loan side. Uh I think between 2010 12 to 2020 side. Uh I think between 2010 12 to 2020 uh the bank banks the government banks uh the bank banks the government banks were uh the the stateowned banks were uh were uh the the stateowned banks were uh recapitalized with almost around 8 lakh recapitalized with almost around 8 lakh cr of rupees. Where did all that money cr of rupees. Where did all that money go? These are all defaults and large go? These are all defaults and large loans. So that crony capitalism is still loans. So that crony capitalism is still there. Somebody some politicians some uh there. Somebody some politicians some uh top person tells that he give them the top person tells that he give them the loan and then that loan gets kind of loan and then that loan gets kind of they don't they they went on to default. they don't they they went on to default. This is this is one one is chronic This is this is one one is chronic capitalism. Second is the way things are capitalism. Second is the way things are changing in the world that whatever changing in the world that whatever assumptions that you take like typically assumptions that you take like typically the solar industry. Now the governments the solar industry. Now the governments give guarantees to all the solar key you give guarantees to all the solar key you put up solar plant and we will buy put up solar plant and we will buy energy at this this price and then when energy at this this price and then when the energy became available they found the energy became available they found out that there that 6 rupee or 8 rupee out that there that 6 rupee or 8 rupee rate is no more sustainable when the rate is no more sustainable when the rate could be 4.5 and then suddenly I rate could be 4.5 and then suddenly I have a contract based on which I have have a contract based on which I have picked up finance from the bank and that picked up finance from the bank and that contract itself is no more valid. Now contract itself is no more valid. Now what I was supposed to get as 6 rupee as what I was supposed to get as 6 rupee as a rate. Now I'm saying that key you have a rate. Now I'm saying that key you have to accept at 4.5. Now that 1.5 is the to accept at 4.5. Now that 1.5 is the money is suddenly lost and that was all money is suddenly lost and that was all profit that I had which I would have profit that I had which I would have then paid my loan repaid my loan and the then paid my loan repaid my loan and the interest there and now that is no more interest there and now that is no more valid. So one is crony capitalism. valid. So one is crony capitalism. Second is changing market conditions Second is changing market conditions over there because of which there is a over there because of which there is a huge loss. Now with the huge loss the huge loss. Now with the huge loss the bankers are now trying to become kind of bankers are now trying to become kind of very very protective of their own very very protective of their own capital. So what are they trying to say? capital. So what are they trying to say? They're telling entrepreneurs that bring They're telling entrepreneurs that bring full collateral. So if you want 2 cr or full collateral. So if you want 2 cr or 10 cr loan get a collateral for that and 10 cr loan get a collateral for that and a personal guarantee. Now I think that's a personal guarantee. Now I think that's a crazy thing. Now a business is a a crazy thing. Now a business is a business. If a business goes bankrupt business. If a business goes bankrupt that should go. Why should that come on that should go. Why should that come on to the personal side? In US and other uh to the personal side? In US and other uh advanced countries the business is advanced countries the business is treated separate, the individual is treated separate, the individual is treated separate. What you give to treated separate. What you give to business is business. Now in India we business is business. Now in India we just saw I think uh recently that uh just saw I think uh recently that uh blue smart or some that money uh blue smart or some that money uh laundering so that keeps happening and laundering so that keeps happening and with these few bad apples I think the with these few bad apples I think the overall industry gets uh a flag because overall industry gets uh a flag because you don't get loan at the face of it. If you don't get loan at the face of it. If you don't get uh good uh uh capital that you don't get uh good uh uh capital that you need working capital uh capital for you need working capital uh capital for long-term investments those become a long-term investments those become a challenge. Uh the rate of interest are challenge. Uh the rate of interest are very high and that basically that means very high and that basically that means if your rate of interest is around 10 if your rate of interest is around 10 12% that means you have to generate a 12% that means you have to generate a business which will give you at least 18 business which will give you at least 18 to 19% return post tax. So pre-ax uh to 19% return post tax. So pre-ax uh with tax maybe you will get around 6 7 with tax maybe you will get around 6 7 8%. So the entire journey has to become 8%. So the entire journey has to become worthwhile for an entrepreneur to kind worthwhile for an entrepreneur to kind of invest the time, energy so that they of invest the time, energy so that they can get returns. Now that most of the can get returns. Now that most of the money is going to go into interest, most money is going to go into interest, most of the money is going to go into of the money is going to go into building certain things which will building certain things which will protect my industry. Then they are going protect my industry. Then they are going to say that key why do I do all this to say that key why do I do all this majari? Why do I do all the those majari? Why do I do all the those efforts and go ahead. So, so basically efforts and go ahead. So, so basically then remaining kind of whatever I'm then remaining kind of whatever I'm trying to do try and remain efficient in trying to do try and remain efficient in that and try and do that that becomes a that and try and do that that becomes a natural kind of a response to the natural kind of a response to the system. That's what I feel. Yeah, it's a system. That's what I feel. Yeah, it's a it's not a unique problem. I remember it's not a unique problem. I remember reading this very fine book called uh reading this very fine book called uh the devil's dictionary by Ambrose Beers. the devil's dictionary by Ambrose Beers. So I think that's the book. The the bank So I think that's the book. The the bank bank is defined as an institution which bank is defined as an institution which will gladly lend you money provided you will gladly lend you money provided you can prove that you don't need it. So can prove that you don't need it. So this this is been there for a long time. this this is been there for a long time. The the grouse for me I mean I what what The the grouse for me I mean I what what I think is these guys have no so you I think is these guys have no so you know people have been cheating banks. We know people have been cheating banks. We don't have a very good uh justice system don't have a very good uh justice system to cash these. That's right. And people to cash these. That's right. And people get away. I mean you uh you know they get away. I mean you uh you know they they will find some way the other two they will find some way the other two even you know there's this Ganjali Jan even you know there's this Ganjali Jan Nra Modi and all they were able to Nra Modi and all they were able to literally like you know defraud the literally like you know defraud the system with impunity and it's just system with impunity and it's just because it became very public and the because it became very public and the you know whole thing sort of blew up in you know whole thing sort of blew up in the media is why they had to leave the the media is why they had to leave the country otherwise they will carry on. country otherwise they will carry on. Oh, and the problem is this that all Oh, and the problem is this that all this starves genuine uh companies from this starves genuine uh companies from uh and uh from from capital and then uh and uh from from capital and then they have to borrow at extortionate they have to borrow at extortionate rates and after a point in time um rates and after a point in time um because you're not sure of generating because you're not sure of generating more returns than you are paying you more returns than you are paying you decide not to you just decide to forgo decide not to you just decide to forgo the business lot a lot of people I know the business lot a lot of people I know they just let business go. Uh I have a they just let business go. Uh I have a couple of um so one anecdote it's a it's couple of um so one anecdote it's a it's a friend of ours. Uh both of you guys a friend of ours. Uh both of you guys have met him. He had a garment business. have met him. He had a garment business. Okay. So how it started he was a garment Okay. So how it started he was a garment exporter used to export garments and uh exporter used to export garments and uh it did pretty well in the export but he it did pretty well in the export but he saw the writing on the wall. The writing saw the writing on the wall. The writing on the wall was every year the margins on the wall was every year the margins were shrinking and uh he decided that were shrinking and uh he decided that you know in a in a few years time he you know in a in a few years time he would basically go get squeezed out by would basically go get squeezed out by and basically this was you know and basically this was you know Bangladesh and Vietnam and all these Bangladesh and Vietnam and all these countries coming up. countries coming up. One of the things uh that was happening One of the things uh that was happening and this is back in the day when uh and this is back in the day when uh imports were not uh easy uh in order to imports were not uh easy uh in order to do garment export you had to import do garment export you had to import fabric from outside that was and you fabric from outside that was and you were allowed to import 10 or 15% excess were allowed to import 10 or 15% excess fabric for you know so that you were fabric for you know so that you were allowed to do that without duty and you allowed to do that without duty and you could keep that fabric so these guys had could keep that fabric so these guys had accumulated quite a lot of fabric accumulated quite a lot of fabric somebody got a bright idea of making a somebody got a bright idea of making a local brand out of it you know we have local brand out of it you know we have this excellent fabric fabric is not this excellent fabric fabric is not available here. You make shirts, available here. You make shirts, trousers, whatever it is and and sell trousers, whatever it is and and sell it, you'll do very well. They did that it, you'll do very well. They did that and it was a resounding success. Now and it was a resounding success. Now they needed to scale up. You know that they needed to scale up. You know that experimental school. So they cobbled experimental school. So they cobbled together whatever resources they had and together whatever resources they had and they grew like very well. I think 5x in they grew like very well. I think 5x in a year or 2 years and then there was a year or 2 years and then there was more demand all over the country. People more demand all over the country. People said you know we like your shirts, we said you know we like your shirts, we like your pants, why don't you do that? like your pants, why don't you do that? And when they went by now they were And when they went by now they were already borrowing from a bank. They went already borrowing from a bank. They went to the bank for enhancement of their to the bank for enhancement of their limits and the bank said they made a limits and the bank said they made a business plan project report projections business plan project report projections and everything and it was just rejected and everything and it was just rejected straight away. The reason was they had straight away. The reason was they had projected a 10x increase over the next 2 projected a 10x increase over the next 2 years or something like that. And he years or something like that. And he says there's no way any industry in the says there's no way any industry in the world can do this. These it does not fit world can do this. These it does not fit into our into our into our norms and we can't give you norms and we can't give you money. And they didn't. Then they you money. And they didn't. Then they you know they went around borrowing money know they went around borrowing money from uh at extortionate rates and you from uh at extortionate rates and you know it affects profitability and um it know it affects profitability and um it didn't end well for that company. But didn't end well for that company. But this is um this is how finance and very this is um this is how finance and very poor financial thinking works. The poor financial thinking works. The there's a lot of um RBI meddling even there's a lot of um RBI meddling even today in the lending process which I today in the lending process which I think is wrong. RBI should just hold um think is wrong. RBI should just hold um accountability. I don't know whether accountability. I don't know whether they because I'm not up to date with they because I'm not up to date with what the RBI is doing but what they what the RBI is doing but what they should really do is to keep checking the should really do is to keep checking the health of at least a large they should health of at least a large they should do first of all an ABC analysis and so do first of all an ABC analysis and so they they'll they'll look with the same they they'll they'll look with the same amount of intensity into a 50,000 rupee amount of intensity into a 50,000 rupee loan as they would do into a 100 cr loan as they would do into a 100 cr rupee or 500 cr rupee loan. So that rupee or 500 cr rupee loan. So that should stop. You should do an ABC. Uh should stop. You should do an ABC. Uh look at the health of the larger look at the health of the larger accounts. Have all kinds of stress accounts. Have all kinds of stress audits for it and things like that and audits for it and things like that and leave the smaller guys alone. That's leave the smaller guys alone. That's when you have an u uh an environment of when you have an u uh an environment of trust. Back in the day, bankers would trust. Back in the day, bankers would would u lend on um basically on their would u lend on um basically on their gut. You know, they they would know if a gut. You know, they they would know if a business is good or not, if they're business is good or not, if they're entrepreneurs worthy or not. Now they entrepreneurs worthy or not. Now they have tried to uh sort of make it so have tried to uh sort of make it so rule-based. Good intentions. They don't rule-based. Good intentions. They don't want people misusing their discretion want people misusing their discretion but it usually cuts the other way and but it usually cuts the other way and deprivives uh industry of uh easy easy deprivives uh industry of uh easy easy credit. That's why I have a nice story credit. That's why I have a nice story here like uh in 2003 4 there is a here like uh in 2003 4 there is a hospital chain I was uh working with hospital chain I was uh working with very closely and helping them out on uh very closely and helping them out on uh certain services. Yeah. And they were certain services. Yeah. And they were proposing they were sending a proposal proposing they were sending a proposal to bank to get loan uh for their the to bank to get loan uh for their the entire hospital building and equipments entire hospital building and equipments and all. And the loan was uh subject to and all. And the loan was uh subject to basically how much turnover that you can basically how much turnover that you can do in the year 2, year three, year four do in the year 2, year three, year four and then the index to that what how can and then the index to that what how can you pay back and that's basis on that you pay back and that's basis on that how much we can give you and uh this how much we can give you and uh this particular doctor was wondering whether particular doctor was wondering whether I can do 18 cr in year 2 or 24 cr and I can do 18 cr in year 2 or 24 cr and that business was like if I move from 18 that business was like if I move from 18 to 24 that is just six extra cr I can to 24 that is just six extra cr I can then get extra some 10 12 cr and then I then get extra some 10 12 cr and then I can build this much more hospital rooms can build this much more hospital rooms and I can have this equipment and I can and I can have this equipment and I can do so many things but then he was not do so many things but then he was not very sure whether this will be possible very sure whether this will be possible or not and more than that they were or not and more than that they were worried that whether bank will accept it worried that whether bank will accept it to or not because there was no to or not because there was no benchmarks it's a hospital it's it's benchmarks it's a hospital it's it's basically turning into industry this is basically turning into industry this is way back in 2003 4 5 I'm talking about way back in 2003 4 5 I'm talking about around 2005 story almost 20 year around 2005 story almost 20 year backstory but then they pushed Because backstory but then they pushed Because the entrepreneur the doctor entrepreneur the entrepreneur the doctor entrepreneur was gutsy. He basically pushed the uh was gutsy. He basically pushed the uh story and said no no no this is what is story and said no no no this is what is because this is the kind of a demand get because this is the kind of a demand get lot of data around that and he could say lot of data around that and he could say I think they they thought about doing uh I think they they thought about doing uh some uh 24 cr in the projection they some uh 24 cr in the projection they actually did some 40 crores in that next actually did some 40 crores in that next year and they went on becoming so big year and they went on becoming so big now that hospital chain is almost around now that hospital chain is almost around 1200 cr chain with a market cap of 1200 cr chain with a market cap of around 10 12,000 cr and they are already around 10 12,000 cr and they are already onto the boards So those small small onto the boards So those small small things where an industry can get really things where an industry can get really a good push if you be little more risk a good push if you be little more risk uh risk taker and like and the banks uh risk taker and like and the banks have to take risk. I think uh the right have to take risk. I think uh the right the good risk and bad risk is what banks the good risk and bad risk is what banks have to understand. Yes. That's why it have to understand. Yes. That's why it is very interesting that if you see in is very interesting that if you see in middle stands in Germany they have some middle stands in Germany they have some concept called house banks. So these concept called house banks. So these house banks are basically local banks house banks are basically local banks which are very close to the company and which are very close to the company and they know okay so the banker and the they know okay so the banker and the owner they are maybe going to the same owner they are maybe going to the same bar for an evening beer and they know bar for an evening beer and they know exactly what is happening with that exactly what is happening with that company and with that their company and with that their understanding of the company understanding of the company understanding of that enterprise is much understanding of that enterprise is much better and with that their risk better and with that their risk takingaking also improves and I think takingaking also improves and I think that interface is something missing in that interface is something missing in India what we need to have is more of India what we need to have is more of that interface so it is not a crony that interface so it is not a crony capitalism. It is not that you become capitalism. It is not that you become friends. It is that you need to have a friends. It is that you need to have a better access so that you can assess better access so that you can assess that entire risk better and you can take that entire risk better and you can take puns and I think certain things where puns and I think certain things where where when you take that risk the where when you take that risk the rewards will definitely be there but how rewards will definitely be there but how do you take right risk is basically do you take right risk is basically matters and that for that just numbers matters and that for that just numbers and just spreadsheets won't work. I and just spreadsheets won't work. I think you need to have a deeper think you need to have a deeper understanding of that entrepreneur and understanding of that entrepreneur and that can happen only when that interface that can happen only when that interface is better. So that I think is something is better. So that I think is something which we need to look at. Yeah. I mean which we need to look at. Yeah. I mean better local knowledge always helps. And better local knowledge always helps. And I'm wondering here if we also need to I'm wondering here if we also need to look at the incentives closely because look at the incentives closely because if you just look at the world of finance if you just look at the world of finance you know I would guess that it is a huge you know I would guess that it is a huge problem that India has so many public problem that India has so many public sector banks because the incentives are sector banks because the incentives are screwed up. What also happened in that screwed up. What also happened in that period 2010 onwards and uh you know Pra period 2010 onwards and uh you know Pra Mukharji handled it disastrously as a Mukharji handled it disastrously as a finance minister. I've had many episodes finance minister. I've had many episodes on this but what also went out of back on this but what also went out of back during that period was that um uh you during that period was that um uh you know PSPs were giving loans know PSPs were giving loans indiscriminately for the wrong reasons. indiscriminately for the wrong reasons. You know you used to have the phrase You know you used to have the phrase phone alone that a politician will call phone alone that a politician will call the head of a PSB and say loan loan and the head of a PSB and say loan loan and therefore you have loans being given for therefore you have loans being given for the wrong reason that distorts the the wrong reason that distorts the market entirely and a lot of the market entirely and a lot of the non-performing loans and so on were you non-performing loans and so on were you know I'd done an episode on this ages know I'd done an episode on this ages ago so I don't remember the exact ago so I don't remember the exact numbers but it was much worse in PSBs numbers but it was much worse in PSBs than in the private sector banks and than in the private sector banks and you'd imagine that in the private sector you'd imagine that in the private sector banks the incentives are much better. banks the incentives are much better. that you know you will ultimately be that you know you will ultimately be judged on your profitability and I would judged on your profitability and I would imagine that this is also an incentive imagine that this is also an incentive for all the things you talk about like for all the things you talk about like getting better getting better getting better local ultimately you want to do whatever local ultimately you want to do whatever it is as a private bank to um you know it is as a private bank to um you know figure out what is a good loan what is a figure out what is a good loan what is a bad loan this will um you know the bad loan this will um you know the incentives at least are right whereas incentives at least are right whereas with PSBs that simply wasn't the case with PSBs that simply wasn't the case and uh it's understandable in a sense and uh it's understandable in a sense for the RBI which is overreaching all for the RBI which is overreaching all the time to say that okay let us solve the time to say that okay let us solve this problem by taking away discretion this problem by taking away discretion and by making it completely rules based and by making it completely rules based but as you pointed out nar that also but as you pointed out nar that also backfires in that case because sometimes backfires in that case because sometimes you need that local discretion sometimes you need that local discretion sometimes you need the bank manager to know you need the bank manager to know the legendary case is uh the legendary case is uh reliance when he when he came back from reliance when he when he came back from Aiden and he was trying to sort of get Aiden and he was trying to sort of get his uh uh his his insight I think was he his uh uh his his insight I think was he could make this rayon visous fiber into could make this rayon visous fiber into into silk like kind of thing some there into silk like kind of thing some there was some such thing. So it was some was some such thing. So it was some level of technological breakthrough. level of technological breakthrough. He's trying to get that uh whole thing He's trying to get that uh whole thing off the ground. He has no uh basically off the ground. He has no uh basically reputation and nobody is willing to give reputation and nobody is willing to give him money. He finally lands up at the him money. He finally lands up at the door of one guy named TA Pi. TA PI was door of one guy named TA Pi. TA PI was the managing director or something of the managing director or something of Syndicate Bank. This is just before Syndicate Bank. This is just before Indira Gandhi nationaliz that he was Indira Gandhi nationaliz that he was also a member in one of her cabinet was also a member in one of her cabinet was heavy industries minister person of heavy industries minister person of great uh sort of you know stature and he great uh sort of you know stature and he when when Dhubayani made his speech and when when Dhubayani made his speech and Dubaiani didn't speak much English so he Dubaiani didn't speak much English so he would have spoken in broken Hindi and I would have spoken in broken Hindi and I don't think tap spoke Gujarati but don't think tap spoke Gujarati but somehow he's the the the enthusiasm the somehow he's the the the enthusiasm the clarity everything got through he gave clarity everything got through he gave him his loan like he just supported him him his loan like he just supported him blanket and then the rest of it is legit blanket and then the rest of it is legit and shortly thereafter syndicate bank and shortly thereafter syndicate bank got nationalized everything all but got nationalized everything all but Dhubayani never stopped uh respecting Dhubayani never stopped uh respecting this to the extent that I went to a this to the extent that I went to a college I went to Manipal Institute of college I went to Manipal Institute of Technology which is run by this PI Technology which is run by this PI family and Dubai used to come every year family and Dubai used to come every year for their annual function I have I've for their annual function I have I've seen I've met Dub I'm not met in a sense seen I've met Dub I'm not met in a sense not had a conversation with him but like not had a conversation with him but like sat across the he's on the dis and I'm sat across the he's on the dis and I'm there and then this is how I'd imagine there and then this is how I'd imagine the economy should function that private the economy should function that private people use their discretion and their people use their discretion and their judgment to make their bets with money judgment to make their bets with money that is not public money uh without any that is not public money uh without any moral hazard that oh if my bank fails moral hazard that oh if my bank fails it'll be bailed out by the taxpayer it'll be bailed out by the taxpayer without any of that happening. So without any of that happening. So how much does uh you know that um affect how much does uh you know that um affect the uh environment? the uh environment? a lot. Um I think uh you we have this a lot. Um I think uh you we have this great case of Hanandani as a builder great case of Hanandani as a builder being so successful because I think in being so successful because I think in early days the pipak parak and the HDFC early days the pipak parak and the HDFC helped them a whole lot and yes so money helped them a whole lot and yes so money given to right person at right time at given to right person at right time at right cost transformative I think right cost transformative I think transform it is transformative transform it is transformative absolutely transformative so uh we have absolutely transformative so uh we have my co-founder Mr. Bagway they at every my co-founder Mr. Bagway they at every stage of life they they are almost stage of life they they are almost around 500 600 cr company now and they around 500 600 cr company now and they have been in the industry for last 40 have been in the industry for last 40 years and at every stage of life they years and at every stage of life they were right people that are very focused were right people that are very focused on business doing business in a on business doing business in a structured manner have all the accounts structured manner have all the accounts in a very clean manner and then the in a very clean manner and then the knowing the people locally at the banks knowing the people locally at the banks and getting the right loan and then not and getting the right loan and then not getting into any hanky banky bringing getting into any hanky banky bringing that entire money putting it where it is that entire money putting it where it is basically If it is asked for X then basically If it is asked for X then spend it on that X and grow that uh yeah spend it on that X and grow that uh yeah and then you see that relationship and then you see that relationship building and then the banks become more building and then the banks become more comfortable with you. This they are comfortable with you. This they are basically coming and asking that okay basically coming and asking that okay when what are you wanting more? Are you when what are you wanting more? Are you trying to go for one more plant? Are you trying to go for one more plant? Are you going for more exports or whatever and going for more exports or whatever and you need working capital loan you need you need working capital loan you need for infrastructure. So banks also over a for infrastructure. So banks also over a period of time the banks the bank period of time the banks the bank manager the ecosystem also understands manager the ecosystem also understands that this is a reliable uh kind of a that this is a reliable uh kind of a company this is not so reliable kind of company this is not so reliable kind of a company and that local knowledge is I a company and that local knowledge is I think very very important for any banker think very very important for any banker to take their risk absolutely important to take their risk absolutely important for the risk so I think uh coming back for the risk so I think uh coming back to the uh point um I think uh uh capital to the uh point um I think uh uh capital is something which is very very scarce is something which is very very scarce and with this more rule-based more and with this more rule-based more fearful kind of a way. I think it's not fearful kind of a way. I think it's not going to be uh good. We need to going to be uh good. We need to basically have more uh yeah I'm not basically have more uh yeah I'm not saying that key give capital left, right saying that key give capital left, right and center. Now we have seen in simple and center. Now we have seen in simple finance world, we have seen the growth finance world, we have seen the growth of Bajash Finance, Bajash Finance has of Bajash Finance, Bajash Finance has really really been very aggressive on really really been very aggressive on personal finance but when they are doing personal finance but when they are doing this their deloquency is very very low. this their deloquency is very very low. They're basically the bad loans are very They're basically the bad loans are very low and a private company could do that. low and a private company could do that. Had it been same thing being done by an Had it been same thing being done by an PSU we would have had a PSC bank PSU we would have had a PSC bank challenge and then they would have gone challenge and then they would have gone same way. It is not. So is mostly same way. It is not. So is mostly unsecured loans. Yeah absolutely unsecured loans. Yeah absolutely unsecured loans small loans of let's say unsecured loans small loans of let's say one lakh two lakh three lakh and those one lakh two lakh three lakh and those are personal loans. So basically any are personal loans. So basically any which way industry loans are very which way industry loans are very different you have the capital assets different you have the capital assets lean against them. So there is no lean against them. So there is no problem personal loan to asset you are problem personal loan to asset you are not going to go and take a air not going to go and take a air conditioner away or a washing machine conditioner away or a washing machine away but then they have been able to away but then they have been able to manage it so well. Well one other point manage it so well. Well one other point I mean just to you know MSME I speak for I mean just to you know MSME I speak for a really smaller the smaller end of the a really smaller the smaller end of the MSME thing I know personally people who MSME thing I know personally people who aren't able to clearly think about aren't able to clearly think about finance. Mhm. Right. So they borrow for finance. Mhm. Right. So they borrow for the wrong reasons. Often times they take the wrong reasons. Often times they take decisions because money is available. I decisions because money is available. I my favorite thing is this there was a my favorite thing is this there was a big craze 10 7 8 10 years ago 7 years big craze 10 7 8 10 years ago 7 years ago on robotic welders. So you have ago on robotic welders. So you have these robo arms which you use for all these robo arms which you use for all welding applications. The hidden in the welding applications. The hidden in the marble is the need at le I don't know marble is the need at le I don't know how it's now but back in the day it was how it's now but back in the day it was pretty difficult to program those damn pretty difficult to program those damn things. So you would have expensive things. So you would have expensive robos sitting on the floor and not doing robos sitting on the floor and not doing a thing because nobody knows how to a thing because nobody knows how to program it. There are people who know program it. There are people who know how to program it. They cost an arm and how to program it. They cost an arm and a leg. Uh-huh. And this sucker has to a leg. Uh-huh. And this sucker has to now service that capital. So sometimes a now service that capital. So sometimes a little bit of reality check is also little bit of reality check is also Yeah. Yeah. You need to have that Yeah. Yeah. You need to have that clarity why you need it, how are you clarity why you need it, how are you going to utilize it. See a lot of people going to utilize it. See a lot of people lot of times we have also seen that lot of times we have also seen that people buying short-term loan and using people buying short-term loan and using it for long-term because it for long-term because long-term project finance. So then take long-term project finance. So then take a short-term loan and use it for a short-term loan and use it for long-term. Now when you take a long-term. Now when you take a short-term loan and use it for long-term short-term loan and use it for long-term that entire loan is not going to repay that entire loan is not going to repay back early. So that time gap is going to back early. So that time gap is going to be there or you take long-term loan and be there or you take long-term loan and use it for short-term. Those both the use it for short-term. Those both the things are basically wrong. A lot things are basically wrong. A lot ofmemes uh the problem is that key they ofmemes uh the problem is that key they go and borrow on the basis of the go and borrow on the basis of the balance sheet but the most important balance sheet but the most important part again is not just balance sheet part again is not just balance sheet it's cash flow do you have cash flow to it's cash flow do you have cash flow to support and in India one of the biggest support and in India one of the biggest challenge is getting payments from your challenge is getting payments from your uh customers it's it's a huge challenge uh customers it's it's a huge challenge means uh people have heard stories about means uh people have heard stories about large corporates not paying money uh for large corporates not paying money uh for almost around five five six months 180 almost around five five six months 180 days is a standard credit and with 180 days is a standard credit and with 180 days not money not coming in the system days not money not coming in the system your you can show your turnover is great your you can show your turnover is great but there is no money for you to pay but there is no money for you to pay even your payroll. So that is another even your payroll. So that is another different challenge. Last couple of different challenge. Last couple of years we are we are to we have to file a years we are we are to we have to file a statement with the ROC. Yeah. On uh our statement with the ROC. Yeah. On uh our payment uh which of our payments have payment uh which of our payments have been delayed more than 45. I I'm I'm been delayed more than 45. I I'm I'm paying my vendors and if I have paid any paying my vendors and if I have paid any of them beyond 45 days, I have to give a of them beyond 45 days, I have to give a list and I have to explain why it's so. list and I have to explain why it's so. Yeah. So that is interesting. So there Yeah. So that is interesting. So there is a new rule which says that key MSMES is a new rule which says that key MSMES if uh so to protect the MSMES if the if uh so to protect the MSMES if the payment is not given in 45 days time payment is not given in 45 days time then that particular expense will not be then that particular expense will not be allowed for uh like as a as a genuine allowed for uh like as a as a genuine expense for that year. So that year so expense for that year. So that year so you have a invoice from a supplier and you have a invoice from a supplier and you have not paid that in 45 days then you have not paid that in 45 days then that invoice will not become expenditure that invoice will not become expenditure that means for your profit will go up that means for your profit will go up and you have to pay tax on that for that and you have to pay tax on that for that year. Now this rule has come a lot of year. Now this rule has come a lot of people are saying this is great rule but people are saying this is great rule but I see fundamentally that key this is I see fundamentally that key this is basically a problem of the system uh and basically a problem of the system uh and why should government get involved into why should government get involved into uh a contract between two parties again uh a contract between two parties again goes back to our uh legal system that if goes back to our uh legal system that if somebody is not paying you getting a somebody is not paying you getting a recourse from legal system is absolutely recourse from legal system is absolutely zero chance so so government is so I zero chance so so government is so I think we all have this uh problem of we think we all have this uh problem of we are trying to solve some holes are there are trying to solve some holes are there and trying to solve it with government and trying to solve it with government intervention but I think over a period intervention but I think over a period of time overall the system needs to of time overall the system needs to change where one needs to basically if I change where one needs to basically if I we we have said that this is a product we we have said that this is a product that we will make as per this quality in that we will make as per this quality in this price and we'll deliver it by this this price and we'll deliver it by this day then we need to honor that day then we need to honor that commitment as an company now we will commitment as an company now we will have 10 different reasons for not doing have 10 different reasons for not doing it why it not happen and all that but we it why it not happen and all that but we have to make it happen and then the have to make it happen and then the other company if they have said that other company if they have said that they will make payment in 30 days they they will make payment in 30 days they have to make that payment. If this have to make that payment. If this system works in this manner then I think system works in this manner then I think we can grow really really well. Uh but we can grow really really well. Uh but these systems don't work then we have these systems don't work then we have government intervention happening and government intervention happening and coming in the places where it should not coming in the places where it should not be. I don't see this 45 days it helps be. I don't see this 45 days it helps now large companies because they don't now large companies because they don't want so large companies are run by CEOs. want so large companies are run by CEOs. Now CEOs don't want such flag coming on. Now CEOs don't want such flag coming on. So if there is a law and if there is a So if there is a law and if there is a compliance all these large company CEOs compliance all these large company CEOs multinational company CEOs they are very multinational company CEOs they are very worried about compliance. So if worried about compliance. So if compliance has to be done okay okay make compliance has to be done okay okay make the payment. So large companies are not the payment. So large companies are not they are okay but if you are supplying they are okay but if you are supplying to government that know government is to government that know government is not paying in 45 days time and if not paying in 45 days time and if government is not paying 45 days time government is not paying 45 days time nobody's taking government to the legal nobody's taking government to the legal system and government can go scot-free system and government can go scot-free about it. So I think then having this about it. So I think then having this 45% 45 days rule does not really make 45% 45 days rule does not really make sense if it is not applicable to sense if it is not applicable to government and the government also government and the government also should pay MSMAS in 45 days time but should pay MSMAS in 45 days time but that does not happen. So these are the that does not happen. So these are the challenges. So how much of a role has challenges. So how much of a role has rule of law traditionally played in um rule of law traditionally played in um uh this whole ecosystem? Because I would uh this whole ecosystem? Because I would imagine that a critical part of it to imagine that a critical part of it to function properly is what is a level of function properly is what is a level of trust there? You know, how is the trust there? You know, how is the contract enforcement? Are you getting contract enforcement? Are you getting paid on time? When you enter into a paid on time? When you enter into a deal, do you have to account for a deal, do you have to account for a possibility the whatever the number is a possibility the whatever the number is a probability that you may not get paid or probability that you may not get paid or the payments may be delayed and etc etc. the payments may be delayed and etc etc. And I would imagine that the more the And I would imagine that the more the friction here, the more your costs go up friction here, the more your costs go up and the more risk averse you are. So and the more risk averse you are. So give me a sense of how that has changed give me a sense of how that has changed in terms of the rule of law, in terms of in terms of the rule of law, in terms of contract enforcement. I would imagine contract enforcement. I would imagine that's a key part of the ecosystem and that's a key part of the ecosystem and what is the role of sort of unstated what is the role of sort of unstated trust that plays uh you know into uh the trust that plays uh you know into uh the space. So I think fundamentally that is space. So I think fundamentally that is one area where we still have the one area where we still have the challenge. It is uh we do not have any challenge. It is uh we do not have any uh clear system or uh uh understanding uh clear system or uh uh understanding creditworthiness of your client. Yeah, creditworthiness of your client. Yeah, there are rudimentary system. You can go there are rudimentary system. You can go to ROC, you can pick up the data and you to ROC, you can pick up the data and you can get some information but uh what is can get some information but uh what is actually put in into the balance sheet actually put in into the balance sheet and what is happening on reality we and what is happening on reality we really don't know. So cash flow has been really don't know. So cash flow has been a huge challenge in uh India. a huge challenge in uh India. Absolutely. like uh couple of my friends Absolutely. like uh couple of my friends they are into uh the jewelry industry uh they are into uh the jewelry industry uh now they are getting lot of orders now they are getting lot of orders because uh they are into exports so because uh they are into exports so they're getting a lot of orders uh which they're getting a lot of orders uh which are being moved away from China because are being moved away from China because China has become high tariff and so they China has become high tariff and so they are wanting to go for that but at the are wanting to go for that but at the same time because of the overall same time because of the overall instability the price of the gold has instability the price of the gold has gone up like crazy crazy I think gold gone up like crazy crazy I think gold crossed 1 lak rupees for 10 uh gs in crossed 1 lak rupees for 10 uh gs in India so so now how do you look at the India so so now how do you look at the whole thing. How do you basically figure whole thing. How do you basically figure out what is the your requirement of uh out what is the your requirement of uh uh capital uh working capital that is uh capital uh working capital that is there at least one part is there that there at least one part is there that key they have exports. So and then uh key they have exports. So and then uh across the world I think that is an across the world I think that is an beautiful system that the payments uh beautiful system that the payments uh which are supposed to come from which are supposed to come from international clients they come on time international clients they come on time absolutely on time but when it comes to absolutely on time but when it comes to India uh because you are not getting India uh because you are not getting your payments from your supplier on time your payments from your supplier on time you have not been able to pay to your you have not been able to pay to your supplier on time and then uh you cannot supplier on time and then uh you cannot get endless capital for uh working get endless capital for uh working capital for that gap. So you have to capital for that gap. So you have to bring your systems into place. So that bring your systems into place. So that is there uh and people there is so there is there uh and people there is so there is no legal recourse for payments which is no legal recourse for payments which are not there not paid on time. There is are not there not paid on time. There is no real fast legal records for payment no real fast legal records for payment which are denied. So I think every which are denied. So I think every company will have at least 8 to 10% of company will have at least 8 to 10% of their receivables which are bad dates. their receivables which are bad dates. Every company would have that. I have Every company would have that. I have seen consistently that unless people so seen consistently that unless people so there are very few people who really there are very few people who really take reconcile their accounts and check take reconcile their accounts and check whether this particular receivable which whether this particular receivable which is good after 90 days or not. Uh I think is good after 90 days or not. Uh I think people just remain on the hope that key people just remain on the hope that key the other person will take mercy on me the other person will take mercy on me and kind of pay me someday. But I have and kind of pay me someday. But I have seen uh people with a turnover of let's seen uh people with a turnover of let's say 50 60 crores having almost around 8 say 50 60 crores having almost around 8 to 10 crores of such loans such to 10 crores of such loans such receivables which are aged beyond 180 receivables which are aged beyond 180 days aged beyond 180 days. Now if your days aged beyond 180 days. Now if your standard uh receivable is supposed to be standard uh receivable is supposed to be in 30 days then 180 days is almost six in 30 days then 180 days is almost six times and the chances of that money times and the chances of that money coming back is going to be very coming back is going to be very difficult. Now in the in the project difficult. Now in the in the project based yes there are always ifs and buts based yes there are always ifs and buts that key you have not delivered this you that key you have not delivered this you have not given this component you have have not given this component you have not done this up to the um quality not done this up to the um quality expectations and you have to fix things expectations and you have to fix things up and all that that takes couple of up and all that that takes couple of months and it falls in place. But in the months and it falls in place. But in the product area also where you are product area also where you are supplying the products where there is supplying the products where there is nothing like you have to give something nothing like you have to give something later on there is nothing like uh now later on there is nothing like uh now this quality is not bad because not this this quality is not bad because not this quality is bad so we can't pay because quality is bad so we can't pay because you already taken that part put it into you already taken that part put it into your system and you have moved your your system and you have moved your system ahead but you are not paying system ahead but you are not paying because your supplier your customer is because your supplier your customer is not paying to you. So this entire chain not paying to you. So this entire chain is cascading and I think that is one of is cascading and I think that is one of the biggest challenge that Indian the biggest challenge that Indian companies have uh getting receivables on companies have uh getting receivables on time uh from your customers. Uh honoring time uh from your customers. Uh honoring the contracts that one has basically the contracts that one has basically agreed upon. Uh Indians also are very agreed upon. Uh Indians also are very informal in operation. So we try and not informal in operation. So we try and not formalize the things. So if there is formalize the things. So if there is something somebody said 45 days so I something somebody said 45 days so I will say that 45 will say that 45 days. So you are already kind of putting days. So you are already kind of putting a slack into the system and then your a slack into the system and then your own systems are not there and if you own systems are not there and if you start asking payments then what happens start asking payments then what happens is that I will stop taking material from is that I will stop taking material from you and I'll go to somebody else. Now you and I'll go to somebody else. Now with that fear you don't want to lose with that fear you don't want to lose business. So you are in this endless business. So you are in this endless hope of no no this person will give me hope of no no this person will give me some money because if I don't give him some money because if I don't give him material he will start buying it from material he will start buying it from somebody else. So for want of a future somebody else. So for want of a future business you allow a longer credit for business you allow a longer credit for the same customer. Now the whole idea is the same customer. Now the whole idea is basically that key if your some of basically that key if your some of customers are not good pay masters you customers are not good pay masters you need to move and look out for market and need to move and look out for market and you move and look out for new customers. you move and look out for new customers. You need to kind of kind of move away You need to kind of kind of move away from a bad pay master to a good pay from a bad pay master to a good pay master. But then that's a difficult master. But then that's a difficult journey and now I already have a journey and now I already have a customer. Now what is he doing? He's customer. Now what is he doing? He's just not giving me payment. I will go just not giving me payment. I will go and kind of beg him and tell him that and kind of beg him and tell him that key siwali s bonus s I will do something key siwali s bonus s I will do something like this and I'll extract money. So the like this and I'll extract money. So the whole system is so informal and so whole system is so informal and so inefficient and that gets extended again inefficient and that gets extended again and again. So if you see people use the and again. So if you see people use the the festival as a big kind of a excuse the festival as a big kind of a excuse or rather a reason to extract payments or rather a reason to extract payments from their customers. So they will so it from their customers. So they will so it is not about key you are supposed to is not about key you are supposed to give me payments 3 months back you will give me payments 3 months back you will say that sir Diwali bonus say that sir Diwali bonus siwali please give me money. So at a siwali please give me money. So at a MSME level the asking money is so MSME level the asking money is so informal and in such a manner that you informal and in such a manner that you will go crazy listening for the excuses will go crazy listening for the excuses or the reasons that people are saying or the reasons that people are saying that all personal reasons all reasons that all personal reasons all reasons which are nobody will say sir you were which are nobody will say sir you were supposed to give me money in 30 days now supposed to give me money in 30 days now it is already 150 days and you need to it is already 150 days and you need to give me nobody speaks in this language give me nobody speaks in this language everybody speaks in the language of surplus all that kind of a thing. A surplus all that kind of a thing. A crazy system. I'll tell you the other crazy system. I'll tell you the other way around how uh companies don't way around how uh companies don't realize that it increases the cost of realize that it increases the cost of doing business. So here's this doing business. So here's this anecdote. 15 16 years anecdote. 15 16 years ago me and a friend of mine we had gone ago me and a friend of mine we had gone to one uh another friend's factory. That to one uh another friend's factory. That fellow was also a vendor to Mahindra and fellow was also a vendor to Mahindra and Chai pani suburha we were talking and Chai pani suburha we were talking and then this guy gets a phone call those then this guy gets a phone call those days it was all landline so landline and days it was all landline so landline and he abuses that whoever is on the other he abuses that whoever is on the other side like anything saying that you are side like anything saying that you are not paying me money this that I know I not paying me money this that I know I don't come here you people are beggars don't come here you people are beggars that a lot of acro is happening so then that a lot of acro is happening so then my friend just asked him okay what what my friend just asked him okay what what was happening. So he says this is one was happening. So he says this is one company that makes particular kind of company that makes particular kind of refrigerators and you know they're refrigerators and you know they're perennially late with payment and I'm perennially late with payment and I'm just doing his work because his late just doing his work because his late father used to be my uh sort of dad's my father used to be my uh sort of dad's my late father's friend. late father's friend. So this friend of mine was basically So this friend of mine was basically looking for he says may I if you don't looking for he says may I if you don't want to do his work but I don't have any want to do his work but I don't have any work I would like to and he said okay work I would like to and he said okay you can take over my business this is you can take over my business this is what happened and so it was a small what happened and so it was a small business this guy started doing it now business this guy started doing it now as it as luck would have it that company as it as luck would have it that company was recently like they had recently was recently like they had recently appointed a guy to turn it around And appointed a guy to turn it around And that man knew that. So this is what was that man knew that. So this is what was happening. They everyone all the vendors happening. They everyone all the vendors because their payments were so bad were because their payments were so bad were charging them double of whatever they charging them double of whatever they should have charged and these people had should have charged and these people had to buy it because no one else was to buy it because no one else was willing to give them on credit. This willing to give them on credit. This person decided to change turn it around. person decided to change turn it around. So he got a lot of he told his bosses So he got a lot of he told his bosses that he that he that he needs at that time I think he got some needs at that time I think he got some 30 40 cr rupees of funds bank facilities 30 40 cr rupees of funds bank facilities and he decided to pay everybody within and he decided to pay everybody within 30 days regardless of and for a while 30 days regardless of and for a while nobody nobody nobody uh believed them you know they said you uh believed them you know they said you know you people all cheats and you know know you people all cheats and you know nothing but he persisted and after about nothing but he persisted and after about 6 to 8 months 6 to 8 months People started realizing and then you People started realizing and then you know they started the attitude started know they started the attitude started softening and you know they were more softening and you know they were more cordial they would go from abuse it cordial they would go from abuse it became to cordiality. This fellow was so became to cordiality. This fellow was so clever he's started renegotiating prices clever he's started renegotiating prices and everyone and everyone and everyone who expressed uh you know unwillingness who expressed uh you know unwillingness to renegotiate they just got cut out of to renegotiate they just got cut out of the system. He went because by now um he the system. He went because by now um he had money as well. He could buy from had money as well. He could buy from third party sources against like with third party sources against like with advanced payment just to spike this guy advanced payment just to spike this guy and within a year or two and within a year or two uh he was able to turn around that uh he was able to turn around that complete company merely because he was complete company merely because he was able to ser save I think 100% or able to ser save I think 100% or something on on the input cost because something on on the input cost because of financial discipline that financial of financial discipline that financial discipline continues to that that discipline continues to that that company has gone from I think they were company has gone from I think they were like a 100 or uh 100 crores or so is like a 100 or uh 100 crores or so is probably a,000,500 cr company today in a probably a,000,500 cr company today in a matter of 7 8 years 10 years. Yeah. matter of 7 8 years 10 years. Yeah. Actually good practices are in your own Actually good practices are in your own self-interest but many many people don't self-interest but many many people don't realize they don't realize it. They realize they don't realize it. They don't realize it and they don't realize don't realize it and they don't realize that cost that you know a lot of people that cost that you know a lot of people will happily give you a 3 to 5% discount will happily give you a 3 to 5% discount if you pay them immediately. Immediately if you pay them immediately. Immediately means like a week or so week or 10 days. means like a week or so week or 10 days. See I think I am only the sucker here See I think I am only the sucker here because forget 45 days I pay my vendors because forget 45 days I pay my vendors in 45 minutes. If they ask nicely I will in 45 minutes. If they ask nicely I will because their friends I will also pay because their friends I will also pay them in advance which I have also done. them in advance which I have also done. But uh yeah I guess the cost of distrust But uh yeah I guess the cost of distrust is actually going getting added at every is actually going getting added at every stage of the business. No the cost of stage of the business. No the cost of distri is so much because I want to distri is so much because I want to say so let me put 5% margin on that and say so let me put 5% margin on that and then that goes on adding the beauty is then that goes on adding the beauty is that once you are once people know that that once you are once people know that your payments come on time everyone is your payments come on time everyone is dying to supply to absolutely so they'll dying to supply to absolutely so they'll happily you know give you the best happily you know give you the best possible price. So being good and kind possible price. So being good and kind of whatever is the agreement that you of whatever is the agreement that you have had with your supplier if you can have had with your supplier if you can just honor that that entire system with just honor that that entire system with that trust can change so much but then that trust can change so much but then we don't do that like you know what even we don't do that like you know what even big companies don't get it so we have to big companies don't get it so we have to uh so one of my friends he makes he used uh so one of my friends he makes he used to make dos to make dos okay and supply he he would supply to a okay and supply he he would supply to a company called hypers city which has company called hypers city which has vanished now and to demart vanished now and to demart Okay. So he was telling me the Okay. So he was telling me the difference. This is many years ago. So 5 difference. This is many years ago. So 5 6 7 years maybe. And demart had a very 6 7 years maybe. And demart had a very good uh you know so they paid their good uh you know so they paid their vendors within weeks like within one or vendors within weeks like within one or two weeks. So everyone was queuing up to two weeks. So everyone was queuing up to supply and demand didn't want a thing supply and demand didn't want a thing other than the best price. Just give us other than the best price. Just give us the best possible price. We don't want the best possible price. We don't want it. And hyper city would keep asking for it. And hyper city would keep asking for promotions. They wanted to have your a promotions. They wanted to have your a person appointed at your cause to stand person appointed at your cause to stand near the stall and try to promote their near the stall and try to promote their product. Demart to do nothing of that product. Demart to do nothing of that and today demart is like leagues and and today demart is like leagues and leagues and leagues ahead. And all these leagues and leagues ahead. And all these guys have vanished. A very different guys have vanished. A very different practice. I think Radhakrisha Dani has practice. I think Radhakrisha Dani has really done wonders. He's he buys all really done wonders. He's he buys all the lab wherever his shop is is the the lab wherever his shop is is the demand is never rented. It is always the demand is never rented. It is always the own facility and lowest price. I think own facility and lowest price. I think uh the way uh the company has grown is uh the way uh the company has grown is really really great. Amazing. And that's really really great. Amazing. And that's simply because of that promise and simply because of that promise and keeping that financial financial keeping that financial financial discipline. Yeah, absolutely true. Very discipline. Yeah, absolutely true. Very right. On that note, let's take a quick right. On that note, let's take a quick commercial break. There is uh an MSME commercial break. There is uh an MSME which is sending us biryani and the which is sending us biryani and the small biryani, medium biryani, micro small biryani, medium biryani, micro biryani and micro samosas actually in biryani and micro samosas actually in this particular case. So, we shall uh this particular case. So, we shall uh have our lunch and then we shall have our lunch and then we shall reconvene. Yes, sure. Have you always wanted to be a sure. Have you always wanted to be a writer but never quite gotten down to writer but never quite gotten down to it? Well, I'd love to help you. Since it? Well, I'd love to help you. Since April 2020, I've enjoyed teaching 27 April 2020, I've enjoyed teaching 27 cohorts of my online course, The Art of cohorts of my online course, The Art of Clear Writing, and an online community Clear Writing, and an online community has now sprung up of all my past has now sprung up of all my past students. We have workshops, a students. We have workshops, a newsletter to showcase the work of newsletter to showcase the work of students, and vibrant community students, and vibrant community interaction. In the course itself, interaction. In the course itself, through four webinars spread over four through four webinars spread over four weekends, I share all I know about the weekends, I share all I know about the craft and practice of clear writing. craft and practice of clear writing. There are many exercises, much There are many exercises, much interaction, and a lovely and lively interaction, and a lovely and lively community at the end of it. The course community at the end of it. The course cost rupes 10,000 plus GST or about cost rupes 10,000 plus GST or about $150. If you're interested, head on over $150. If you're interested, head on over to register at to register at indiaut.com/clearwriting. That's india indiaut.com/clearwriting. That's india uncut.com/clearwriting. Being a good uncut.com/clearwriting. Being a good writer doesn't require God-given talent, writer doesn't require God-given talent, just a willingness to work hard and a just a willingness to work hard and a clear idea of what you need to do to clear idea of what you need to do to refine your skills. I can help you. Welcome back to the scene and the you. Welcome back to the scene and the unseen. We are still talking about a unseen. We are still talking about a subject which I think goes to the heart subject which I think goes to the heart of what can make India great again and of what can make India great again and what has given India as much prosperity what has given India as much prosperity as it has got and the key to even more as it has got and the key to even more prosperity which is MSME seems like a prosperity which is MSME seems like a complicated term but medium small micro complicated term but medium small micro small and medium enterprises and with me small and medium enterprises and with me are Sudhir Sanobart of how frameworks are Sudhir Sanobart of how frameworks which we will come back to talking about which we will come back to talking about uh very soon and my good friend the uh very soon and my good friend the great storyteller Narendra Shinoi great storyteller Narendra Shinoi India's finest Narendra and I want to India's finest Narendra and I want to now don't laugh I mean at your India's now don't laugh I mean at your India's finest uh Narendra Ko shak just as I am finest uh Narendra Ko shak just as I am India's finest well said so uh we were India's finest well said so uh we were talking about the challenges that MSMES talking about the challenges that MSMES face in this new environment and I also face in this new environment and I also want to ask you guys then about adoption want to ask you guys then about adoption of technology understanding the changing of technology understanding the changing world and adopting fast enough Because world and adopting fast enough Because as we discussed before the break, often as we discussed before the break, often there is a lag in the mindset catching there is a lag in the mindset catching up to the reality and the world is up to the reality and the world is technologically changing super fast. Uh technologically changing super fast. Uh Narin, you mentioned how it might often Narin, you mentioned how it might often be the case that a guy who's making like be the case that a guy who's making like a cr of profit in a year will just try a cr of profit in a year will just try to maintain that cr instead of trying to to maintain that cr instead of trying to take it to 10 crores. Little realizing take it to 10 crores. Little realizing that the circumstances that allowed him that the circumstances that allowed him to make that cr in the first place have to make that cr in the first place have changed completely. that in today's changed completely. that in today's world uh it's a treadmill and it's a world uh it's a treadmill and it's a treadmill on high speed. You have to run treadmill on high speed. You have to run to stay where you are. Right? So give me to stay where you are. Right? So give me like that queen in Alice in Wonderland, like that queen in Alice in Wonderland, right? The red queen. This is like the right? The red queen. This is like the red queen. See, it's good to have red queen. See, it's good to have friends my own age because instead of friends my own age because instead of talking about red pill, they will talk talking about red pill, they will talk about red queen. This is quite glorious about red queen. This is quite glorious but uh quite apart from this and but uh quite apart from this and listeners my age will be like red pill listeners my age will be like red pill red pill. Google it more. So, so uh so red pill. Google it more. So, so uh so give me your sense of this that how how give me your sense of this that how how difficult it is just mentally for an difficult it is just mentally for an MSME today to wrap itself around the MSME today to wrap itself around the changing world both in terms of changing world both in terms of technology adop adoption and technology adop adoption and otherwise what I've been seeing is that otherwise what I've been seeing is that uh we because we have too many people uh we because we have too many people around uh we try and throw people at any around uh we try and throw people at any problem uh so if you have seen for ages problem uh so if you have seen for ages on the partner and we'll happily talk on the partner and we'll happily talk about it that you would have so many about it that you would have so many people trying to check uh you and the people trying to check uh you and the security and then there are if you have security and then there are if you have uh not long enough lines then instead of uh not long enough lines then instead of bringing in technology they would bring bringing in technology they would bring in more people more stations and stuff in more people more stations and stuff like that and that's what we are seeing like that and that's what we are seeing at an international airport in India at at an international airport in India at the local level that is what everybody the local level that is what everybody does now uh you want to load unload does now uh you want to load unload something you will have people put in something you will have people put in over there and then they will keep over there and then they will keep struggling about it you have uh struggling about it you have uh inventory management. You will have inventory management. You will have people who can actually measure the people who can actually measure the inventory. So I have like friends who inventory. So I have like friends who have done business worth 20050 300 cr have done business worth 20050 300 cr but uh they have not had a basic ERP in but uh they have not had a basic ERP in the place. Now that is fundamentally the place. Now that is fundamentally very simple thing to do because you very simple thing to do because you really want to know how much money that really want to know how much money that is stuck in uh your inventory. What is is stuck in uh your inventory. What is your FIFO, what is your LEO? uh the your FIFO, what is your LEO? uh the whole stuff the first in first out and whole stuff the first in first out and stuff like that but these guys are not stuff like that but these guys are not at all bothered about that because they at all bothered about that because they are so worried about technology because are so worried about technology because for them technology is something like an for them technology is something like an alien while so I understand that every alien while so I understand that every country's journey uh so China what it country's journey uh so China what it was doing in 2015 is what maybe we are was doing in 2015 is what maybe we are trying to do now and what China is doing trying to do now and what China is doing now maybe we will do in 2035 or maybe a now maybe we will do in 2035 or maybe a little earlier because the rate is little earlier because the rate is changing but changing but changing but I just came around a bit of a news that I just came around a bit of a news that I I didn't know about about it almost a I I didn't know about about it almost a week back is that Alibaba has been week back is that Alibaba has been running a complete humanless hotel uh in running a complete humanless hotel uh in China from 2018 onwards. Only robots China from 2018 onwards. Only robots only robots at all there nothing else. only robots at all there nothing else. So I think in India uh that mindset of So I think in India uh that mindset of technology is very missing. Uh so be it technology is very missing. Uh so be it basically uh so so you you start basically uh so so you you start anything let's say from marketing. Now anything let's say from marketing. Now in marketing they will have people who in marketing they will have people who will go on feeds to sales people going will go on feeds to sales people going to let's say B2B MSMES are mostly B2B so to let's say B2B MSMES are mostly B2B so they will be going to customers they they will be going to customers they will be meeting them uh and then coming will be meeting them uh and then coming back uh bringing the cards visiting back uh bringing the cards visiting cards and keeping them in that card cards and keeping them in that card holder and then they don't know when to holder and then they don't know when to get it back the numbers are not properly get it back the numbers are not properly maintained now the basic answer to this maintained now the basic answer to this is simple CRM now you have a customer is simple CRM now you have a customer relationship management system where you relationship management system where you and actually clock every uh customer's and actually clock every uh customer's name number the decision influencer all name number the decision influencer all that then you can create funnels for that then you can create funnels for your uh sales inquiries this is a basic your uh sales inquiries this is a basic thing and I think any s entrepreneur for thing and I think any s entrepreneur for the sake of getting best out of it the sake of getting best out of it should do it but you look at uh the should do it but you look at uh the entire industry I think uh if you are entire industry I think uh if you are looking at uh S and M then small to very looking at uh S and M then small to very few companies would have a good uh CRM few companies would have a good uh CRM in the place uh micro to absolutely in the place uh micro to absolutely don't have unless and until you have a don't have unless and until you have a B2C where they have some kind of a B2C where they have some kind of a software coming in in place but that's software coming in in place but that's absolutely not there then you want ERPs absolutely not there then you want ERPs uh ERPs are not in place so inventory uh ERPs are not in place so inventory control is gone for a toss a basic thing control is gone for a toss a basic thing like working collaboratively now like working collaboratively now Microsoft has come with something like Microsoft has come with something like Microsoft 365 UI which basically gives Microsoft 365 UI which basically gives you uh uh access. Now Microsoft is a you uh uh access. Now Microsoft is a company which has come from desktop to company which has come from desktop to uh the cloud while Google has always uh the cloud while Google has always been on cloud. Now working on Google or been on cloud. Now working on Google or any guit is something which is easy but any guit is something which is easy but then these people don't have a basic then these people don't have a basic thing like you have to have a website thing like you have to have a website for your company. You have to have your for your company. You have to have your email id which is at the rate of your email id which is at the rate of your domain. These are the small small things domain. These are the small small things but then these things matter a lot and but then these things matter a lot and these small technological adoptions are these small technological adoptions are also difficult at most of the SMMES in also difficult at most of the SMMES in India. I have seen that uh the moment India. I have seen that uh the moment you cross around 100 crores. So you move you cross around 100 crores. So you move from small to medium at is at that point from small to medium at is at that point I see people having that traction but I see people having that traction but then it should be done much much much then it should be done much much much earlier. Now this is about I'm talking earlier. Now this is about I'm talking about processes which are basically about processes which are basically marketing process your uh inventory marketing process your uh inventory management process your billing process management process your billing process and stuff like that when it comes to and stuff like that when it comes to inside the factory inside the factory inside the factory using uh robots u using fixtures so that using uh robots u using fixtures so that you your work becomes very easier you your work becomes very easier absolute uh low adoption rate for that absolute uh low adoption rate for that uh using something called IoT where you uh using something called IoT where you can remotely control remotely manage can remotely control remotely manage predict about the failures predict predict about the failures predict maintenance uh task and all that maintenance uh task and all that absolutely means you will find only 1% absolutely means you will find only 1% or maybe one and a half% adoption. Now I or maybe one and a half% adoption. Now I believe that uh the entire growth is not believe that uh the entire growth is not just a technology or entire growth is just a technology or entire growth is not just human. It has to be human plus not just human. It has to be human plus technology because you need that human technology because you need that human to kind of guide that technology in the to kind of guide that technology in the most productive manner. But technology most productive manner. But technology is non-negotiable today and people I is non-negotiable today and people I believe that key in India that mindset believe that key in India that mindset of technology is something which is not of technology is something which is not there. People are fearful people don't there. People are fearful people don't know and fundamentally what I see is know and fundamentally what I see is that before adopting any technology you that before adopting any technology you need to have a structured manual need to have a structured manual process. Now people do not want to get process. Now people do not want to get into that first structured manual into that first structured manual process. you have a manual process then process. you have a manual process then you automate that process and that's how you automate that process and that's how you adopt technology but people just you adopt technology but people just don't go for that first step and that's don't go for that first step and that's why the second step is always worrisome why the second step is always worrisome so as an country uh the way we see chaos so as an country uh the way we see chaos on the roads the way we see chaos in the on the roads the way we see chaos in the queue people nobody's in the queue so queue people nobody's in the queue so there is no chaos there is no queue only there is no chaos there is no queue only so the way that happens u I feel that so the way that happens u I feel that key that is there in the operation of key that is there in the operation of any MSME also there is a lot of chaos any MSME also there is a lot of chaos there is lot of ordering there is there is lot of ordering there is instructions changing uh every week. instructions changing uh every week. Owner's mood is very important. Owner is Owner's mood is very important. Owner is seeing uh the workers standing outside seeing uh the workers standing outside beyond the tea time and then he will beyond the tea time and then he will start shouting and thinking that that is start shouting and thinking that that is the cause of productivity not happening. the cause of productivity not happening. The main root cause could be something The main root cause could be something else. So I think with that mood with else. So I think with that mood with that not being in structured manner is that not being in structured manner is the biggest cause that I see that uh the the biggest cause that I see that uh the mind does not accept uh technology but I mind does not accept uh technology but I think uh over a period of time because think uh over a period of time because the technology is coming in in way the the technology is coming in in way the way Aadhaar came in uh I would not say way Aadhaar came in uh I would not say it's a great technology we will talk it's a great technology we will talk about the privacy and those issues about the privacy and those issues separately but I think it has dropped separately but I think it has dropped down the cost of KYC uh greatly and down the cost of KYC uh greatly and people have followed that some very people have followed that some very nicely same thing is now UPI now UPI nicely same thing is now UPI now UPI people are using the adoption rate is people are using the adoption rate is amazing and it is really like it it amazing and it is really like it it feels like magic that technology is feels like magic that technology is really like magic that way I feel key uh really like magic that way I feel key uh the technology adoption is slowly slowly the technology adoption is slowly slowly creeping in in Indian guy I think Indian creeping in in Indian guy I think Indian person any which way wants to negotiate person any which way wants to negotiate everything because there are so many everything because there are so many constraints that person always feels constraints that person always feels that everybody's taking me for granted that everybody's taking me for granted that means the negotiation is absolutely that means the negotiation is absolutely at the core of everything so if You have at the core of everything so if You have a desk and if there is a person there a desk and if there is a person there and if you are in a queue you will and if you are in a queue you will always go and try to cut the queue and always go and try to cut the queue and start negotiating with that person there start negotiating with that person there but the moment you have a technology but the moment you have a technology then everything is gone. So I think I then everything is gone. So I think I read somewhere I think it is Lilyutland read somewhere I think it is Lilyutland uh book I think that's where I read uh uh book I think that's where I read uh yeah that uh Rama Vij Rama Pijaborg's yeah that uh Rama Vij Rama Pijaborg's book is there that that technology book is there that that technology actually disciplines people because actually disciplines people because there is no window where you can go and there is no window where you can go and negotiate technology tells you key do negotiate technology tells you key do this this this and the answer is there this this this and the answer is there so I think somewhere technology is an so I think somewhere technology is an interesting tool to get order into our interesting tool to get order into our living is what I feel and if that living is what I feel and if that technology can brought in into MSME technology can brought in into MSME sector in a way I think lot of order can sector in a way I think lot of order can come there because we our mindset of come there because we our mindset of order is not there. There is a hu huge order is not there. There is a hu huge mindset of going through the chaos and mindset of going through the chaos and negotiating things and going the way we negotiating things and going the way we drive our car, the way we stand in the drive our car, the way we stand in the queues everywhere. I think we try and queues everywhere. I think we try and negotiating things. So fundamentally negotiating things. So fundamentally that is a mindset play which can change that is a mindset play which can change about technology. Oh, I I personally about technology. Oh, I I personally believe that at least in the MSM, at believe that at least in the MSM, at least in the little world that I'm least in the little world that I'm around in, most people uh don't adopt it around in, most people uh don't adopt it because they don't understand and that's because they don't understand and that's that's the fear. So there's an old joke that's the fear. So there's an old joke about this uh man in the council in an about this uh man in the council in an in an English burrow and the council in an English burrow and the council people want a urinal to be put up in the people want a urinal to be put up in the marketplace and everyone says okay but marketplace and everyone says okay but does the chairperson of this thing does the chairperson of this thing refuses says no no refuses says no no urinal and they're flammox know why he urinal and they're flammox know why he would say and then a clever person would say and then a clever person realizes that he probably doesn't know realizes that he probably doesn't know what a urinal Mhm. So he explains to him what a urinal Mhm. So he explains to him just takes him aside and explains what a just takes him aside and explains what a urinal is. So he says you know then when urinal is. So he says you know then when the meeting convenes again says yes yes the meeting convenes again says yes yes yes I'm totally for the urinal and while yes I'm totally for the urinal and while we are at it let's put an arsenal we are at it let's put an arsenal as so this is what happens when uh we we as so this is what happens when uh we we don't understand so a lot of vendors don't understand so a lot of vendors like so ERP I've uh you know we've got like so ERP I've uh you know we've got one version of ERP in our unit and one version of ERP in our unit and people try you get all this the sales people try you get all this the sales sales people are these slick snake oil sales people are these slick snake oil guys who basically come and tell you guys who basically come and tell you what wondrous things the ERP will do for what wondrous things the ERP will do for you without actually explaining what an you without actually explaining what an ERP is. And all MSME owners, okay, they ERP is. And all MSME owners, okay, they are they have finally horned are they have finally horned detectors. It's like dogs have these detectors. It's like dogs have these great alactory receptors. So every MSME great alactory receptors. So every MSME moment they hear and then then they moment they hear and then then they start pitching you know like they they start pitching you know like they they the the snake oil salesman is also the the snake oil salesman is also trying to gauge so he'll throw numbers trying to gauge so he'll throw numbers 25 lakhs 50 lakhs and uh trying to see 25 lakhs 50 lakhs and uh trying to see at what point you know is like the at what point you know is like the spectacle guy. So he's the spectacle guy spectacle guy. So he's the spectacle guy is coaching his assistant to sell is coaching his assistant to sell chasma. So he says how do you sell? Says chasma. So he says how do you sell? Says nothing. So when you when the guy comes nothing. So when you when the guy comes you tell him 1,000 you tell him 1,000 rupees for a glass the other glass is rupees for a glass the other glass is 1,000 he still doesn't uh uh wins then 1,000 he still doesn't uh uh wins then you say this frame is another 1,000 you say this frame is another 1,000 rupees extra so you just try to you know rupees extra so you just try to you know and people get put off by that but it's and people get put off by that but it's tremendously useful a ERP system is tremendously useful a ERP system is magical so it it weeds out uh magical so it it weeds out uh because uh the way most MSMES work because uh the way most MSMES work manufacturing unit. You buy stuff, you manufacturing unit. You buy stuff, you put it into the pipeline where put it into the pipeline where transformation happens, then the transformation happens, then the finished goods go out, then you get paid finished goods go out, then you get paid and then it goes back into the ramen. and then it goes back into the ramen. That's the cycle. And uh as uh you know, That's the cycle. And uh as uh you know, as companies evolve, as they grow larger as companies evolve, as they grow larger and larger, you have multiple inputs and larger, you have multiple inputs with multiple difficulties of with multiple difficulties of procurement. Some inputs you can get procurement. Some inputs you can get literally like I order it now and I'll literally like I order it now and I'll get it 15 minutes later. Some could take get it 15 minutes later. Some could take months if they are coming from overseas months if they are coming from overseas and you really don't know uh how you and you really don't know uh how you have to and it's it's a big amount of have to and it's it's a big amount of money that you end up uh investing in money that you end up uh investing in those stocks and very often it happens those stocks and very often it happens that you are stocking months and months that you are stocking months and months of supply of the stuff that you could of supply of the stuff that you could get in 15 minutes or half an hour. you get in 15 minutes or half an hour. you don't need to be and ERP rightly used don't need to be and ERP rightly used gives you a very good idea of what is gives you a very good idea of what is where and the guy at the top or at some where and the guy at the top or at some decent level at a glance is able to decent level at a glance is able to decide um whether we are doing something decide um whether we are doing something stupid or not and is a great tool for stupid or not and is a great tool for optimization it's never pitched like optimization it's never pitched like that ERP is they all all the sales that ERP is they all all the sales people will tell you that moment you people will tell you that moment you sell one unit everything in the ERP sell one unit everything in the ERP system will automatically update. sales system will automatically update. sales orders will go automatically material orders will go automatically material will automatically automatically will automatically automatically materialize and everything happens and materialize and everything happens and uh you literally don't have to do uh you literally don't have to do anything which is not what it's supposed anything which is not what it's supposed to be that and many such uh things like to be that and many such uh things like that it it breeds a distrust of that it it breeds a distrust of technologies one is ERP one is the CRM technologies one is ERP one is the CRM which sudhir said and the other is just which sudhir said and the other is just effective intelligent use of a website effective intelligent use of a website and uh you know ways of uh reaching and uh you know ways of uh reaching customers. Yeah, people don't literally customers. Yeah, people don't literally no MSME has a including mine has a no MSME has a including mine has a website uh functional website functional website uh functional website functional website and you know it's so stupid. So website and you know it's so stupid. So you put up a website because you want to you put up a website because you want to sell your product or you want to sell sell your product or you want to sell your company or whatever it'll have your company or whatever it'll have three pages on what the founders did three pages on what the founders did right to bring the company to it. Who right to bring the company to it. Who cares right? I want to buy whatever cares right? I want to buy whatever widget you are selling. You tell me how widget you are selling. You tell me how much it costs or what your widget can do much it costs or what your widget can do and why it is shinier than somebody and why it is shinier than somebody else's widget. No, you'll never get else's widget. No, you'll never get that. And yet every now and then you that. And yet every now and then you find people who are uh so good and even find people who are uh so good and even even small guys. So one person that all even small guys. So one person that all of both of you know uh indirectly is the of both of you know uh indirectly is the guy who sells pork near my house, a guy guy who sells pork near my house, a guy named Mystical. So Mystical uh very named Mystical. So Mystical uh very interesting character. He used to be an interesting character. He used to be an engine driver in the Indian railways. Is engine driver in the Indian railways. Is his name Mystical? No. His name of his his name Mystical? No. His name of his shop is Mystical that I know. Xavier. shop is Mystical that I know. Xavier. Yeah. So Xavier used to be a uh engine Yeah. So Xavier used to be a uh engine driver, locomotive driver in Indian driver, locomotive driver in Indian Railways. He retired and he I guess he Railways. He retired and he I guess he had a little bit of money. He didn't he had a little bit of money. He didn't he wanted to you know be in business. He wanted to you know be in business. He was too young to retire. So he bought was too young to retire. So he bought this little shop that was selling cold this little shop that was selling cold cuts and sausages and things like that cuts and sausages and things like that cold storage and uh that was close to cold storage and uh that was close to our house and then he and his wife would our house and then he and his wife would sit at the shop sell and very pleasant sit at the shop sell and very pleasant people they got more customers and then people they got more customers and then he thought why don't I also sell you he thought why don't I also sell you know meat, chicken, mutton things like know meat, chicken, mutton things like that and he started doing it and soon uh that and he started doing it and soon uh he got a reputation for giving really he got a reputation for giving really good products. I can attest to that good products. I can attest to that having amazing right at your place. having amazing right at your place. Excellent. And he started having cues Excellent. And he started having cues outside his shop because people would so outside his shop because people would so proactively. Okay. So there is this proactively. Okay. So there is this legendary uh firm called Chitlay Bandu legendary uh firm called Chitlay Bandu in Pune. Chitle Bandu is a great company in Pune. Chitle Bandu is a great company now but legend has it. I don't know how now but legend has it. I don't know how far this is true. Back in the day the far this is true. Back in the day the you know cues would form outside you know cues would form outside for their bakari and at around 12:30 for their bakari and at around 12:30 because it closed shop closed at 1. because it closed shop closed at 1. 12:30 one guy would come and he would 12:30 one guy would come and he would look at the line and he say everyone look at the line and he say everyone after the yellow shirt go back home you after the yellow shirt go back home you know no interest in in Z was the other know no interest in in Z was the other end of that spectrum. He end of that spectrum. He uh and this is back in the day when all uh and this is back in the day when all these things were damn expensive. He got these things were damn expensive. He got someone to make a an app for him. Got a someone to make a an app for him. Got a backend system which would translate backend system which would translate into a database. Got some way of putting into a database. Got some way of putting his stocks into that database. Got some his stocks into that database. Got some way to hook up a credit card payment and way to hook up a credit card payment and everything to it and he went online and everything to it and he went online and every person who would come to his shop. every person who would come to his shop. Okay. So, he's got Savior has great PR Okay. So, he's got Savior has great PR skills. So, everybody is his friend. I skills. So, everybody is his friend. I I'm his friend as well. So, he'll talk. I'm his friend as well. So, he'll talk. He'll remember people's name. And at He'll remember people's name. And at that time what he would do was he would that time what he would do was he would pull out his phone and tell people how pull out his phone and tell people how to use the app and tell them you don't to use the app and tell them you don't need to come stand here in queue I stand need to come stand here in queue I stand I vouch for it I'll take things like I vouch for it I'll take things like that and he told me like just after co that and he told me like just after co his business went up 10x wow because of his business went up 10x wow because of that one in it cost him a lot of money that one in it cost him a lot of money some five or six lakh rupees at that some five or six lakh rupees at that time probably yeah I think he got ripped time probably yeah I think he got ripped off in the making of it but regardless off in the making of it but regardless you know 10x is crazy progressive. So you know 10x is crazy progressive. So his I what I liked is the clarity of his his I what I liked is the clarity of his vision. He knew that he had something vision. He knew that he had something going. He knew that people wanted fresh going. He knew that people wanted fresh meat, good quality meat, meat that he meat, good quality meat, meat that he could, you know, sort of rest assured it could, you know, sort of rest assured it would be the best quality and that his would be the best quality and that his shop wasn't big enough to service all of shop wasn't big enough to service all of them. So he got another industrial them. So he got another industrial establishment started processing meat establishment started processing meat there. So a lot of time the reason there. So a lot of time the reason people don't go for technology is their people don't go for technology is their their vision itself is not clear their vision itself is not clear sometimes that's that's the impression I sometimes that's that's the impression I get and you know what sudir you were get and you know what sudir you were saying earlier is that it is not that saying earlier is that it is not that people overint intellectualize like I people overint intellectualize like I tend to do and think oh there is this tend to do and think oh there is this gap in the market I will go and fill it gap in the market I will go and fill it but they just go out there and they do but they just go out there and they do something they're good at and then they something they're good at and then they go with the flow and I'm just thinking go with the flow and I'm just thinking aloud listening to your story narin that aloud listening to your story narin that that's most people that is how it is that's most people that is how it is that you take over the meat business of that you take over the meat business of your dad or whatever and you're kind of your dad or whatever and you're kind of running it and you're good at running it running it and you're good at running it the way it is and you don't have the the way it is and you don't have the vision and this man came from outside vision and this man came from outside took over the store and he had the took over the store and he had the vision and uh he kind of got the job vision and uh he kind of got the job done and all the pieces fell into place done and all the pieces fell into place he both had the vision to get the app he both had the vision to get the app made the vision to get it made well so made the vision to get it made well so it is uh the user interface is as it is uh the user interface is as friendly as you're saying and also the friendly as you're saying and also the goodwill within the market and the goodwill within the market and the product market fit that everyone wanted product market fit that everyone wanted is mystical poke is, you know, a very is mystical poke is, you know, a very apt name for uh the the the uh mystical apt name for uh the the the uh mystical uh book and everything kind of fell into uh book and everything kind of fell into place. But I just feel knowing this place. But I just feel knowing this society and knowing human nature itself society and knowing human nature itself that there must be so many tragic that there must be so many tragic stories of people who simply don't see stories of people who simply don't see that bigger picture who are going along that bigger picture who are going along with what was what they've done all with what was what they've done all their lives. But the world is changing their lives. But the world is changing so fast that they fall by the wayside so fast that they fall by the wayside and they don't even know what hit them. and they don't even know what hit them. And there must be a lot of that. And I I And there must be a lot of that. And I I would imagine at some level it's also a would imagine at some level it's also a failure of the market because where are failure of the market because where are the people in the market who are going the people in the market who are going out and evangelizing the new technology out and evangelizing the new technology to them saying that also hasn't happened. So give me a that also hasn't happened. So give me a sense of the pace of change. I'm I'm sense of the pace of change. I'm I'm sure there must be so many tragic sure there must be so many tragic stories of people who just fallen by the stories of people who just fallen by the wayside because they couldn't adapt. wayside because they couldn't adapt. Yeah. So I think uh there are there is a Yeah. So I think uh there are there is a lot that is changing with the new lot that is changing with the new generation coming in in uh I think uh generation coming in in uh I think uh India has one of the highest penet I India has one of the highest penet I think uh India is the largest market for think uh India is the largest market for WhatsApp in the world. maybe could be WhatsApp in the world. maybe could be largest market for WhatsApp in the world largest market for WhatsApp in the world easily and uh if that is the case uh easily and uh if that is the case uh that adoption is really really high uh that adoption is really really high uh there's a lot of things that come there's a lot of things that come through that medium so the sharing that through that medium so the sharing that happens along with uh WhatsApp uh the happens along with uh WhatsApp uh the people getting exposed to new ideas I people getting exposed to new ideas I think uh even uh mean we have seen that think uh even uh mean we have seen that uh the payment gateways uh were uh the payment gateways uh were overwhelmed at certain point of time overwhelmed at certain point of time that they were not allowed to grow that they were not allowed to grow beyond because their technology the beyond because their technology the backend technology was growing slower backend technology was growing slower than their consumers. So we are seeing than their consumers. So we are seeing that the consumers are adopting to it that the consumers are adopting to it and uh the way formalization is and uh the way formalization is happening. Maybe the pace is not as fast happening. Maybe the pace is not as fast as we want but the formalization is as we want but the formalization is definitely happening. So I think with definitely happening. So I think with the payment systems coming in place that the payment systems coming in place that is the first technology because if you is the first technology because if you can reduce the friction in the payment can reduce the friction in the payment then most of the other frictions can then most of the other frictions can slowly slowly be taken away though the slowly slowly be taken away though the payment friction is gone uh mostly gone. payment friction is gone uh mostly gone. Your payments happen pretty seamlessly. Your payments happen pretty seamlessly. You don't have to wait for the check to You don't have to wait for the check to be cleared and waiting for coming in the be cleared and waiting for coming in the bank though only I can release my bank though only I can release my payments. You get to see your balances payments. You get to see your balances pretty easily from the system. So that pretty easily from the system. So that one system then one technology has one system then one technology has coming in place. But also that uh there coming in place. But also that uh there are lot of technologies uh like say are lot of technologies uh like say technology cost is coming down. So technology cost is coming down. So something like RFID which used to cost something like RFID which used to cost almost around $56 a piece now is less almost around $56 a piece now is less than half a dollar a few cents few cents than half a dollar a few cents few cents it is. Yeah absolutely invaluable in it is. Yeah absolutely invaluable in tagging in warehouse management is tagging in warehouse management is amazing. Yeah. So that can be used for amazing. Yeah. So that can be used for MSME for tagging your products in your MSME for tagging your products in your uh stores whatever stores you have that uh stores whatever stores you have that will give you much better identification will give you much better identification much way better uh visibility of the much way better uh visibility of the products that are there. Yes. uh products that are there. Yes. uh adoption is happening but not at the adoption is happening but not at the rate that we are looking at but uh the rate that we are looking at but uh the more and more exposure the TV the media more and more exposure the TV the media the internet that all is increasing the the internet that all is increasing the exposure and that exposure is bringing exposure and that exposure is bringing in the change over a period of time that in the change over a period of time that is for sure but still I think tier 2 and is for sure but still I think tier 2 and tier three cities uh is where the real tier three cities uh is where the real change should happen because your change should happen because your truememes are from those the truememes are from those the manufacturing thememes like I've been manufacturing thememes like I've been interacting with theme owners from let's interacting with theme owners from let's say sangli satara kulapur say sangli satara kulapur uh Aurangabad and place like that and uh Aurangabad and place like that and then there are places like Suratodra then there are places like Suratodra Ahmedabad, Ankaleshwar, Rajcot down Ahmedabad, Ankaleshwar, Rajcot down south you have Salm, you have Coimur, south you have Salm, you have Coimur, you have so many places where there are you have so many places where there are hubs of manufacturing activities and hubs of manufacturing activities and those are the real SMMES which need to those are the real SMMES which need to bring that transformation and bring bring that transformation and bring those and and with technology what those and and with technology what happens is that with everything visible happens is that with everything visible your economies of scale can come in your economies of scale can come in because you now know everything so because you now know everything so clearly and you know what uh lever can clearly and you know what uh lever can be shifted a bit and that can give you a be shifted a bit and that can give you a multiple multiple kind of differential multiple multiple kind of differential in the overall performance. So that is in the overall performance. So that is something that should happen is what I something that should happen is what I feel that that's that's something that I feel that that's that's something that I see uh it should basically a function of see uh it should basically a function of uh uh uh availability as well as uh education. availability as well as uh education. Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. Absolutely. And Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. Absolutely. And then uh I think uh there are a whole lot then uh I think uh there are a whole lot of people uh so content management as a of people uh so content management as a service there are a lot of people there service there are a lot of people there out there uh people who want to put you out there uh people who want to put you on a social media. So LinkedIn is a on a social media. So LinkedIn is a common platform for all entrepreneurs common platform for all entrepreneurs and uh professionals. So how do you put and uh professionals. So how do you put yourself your company onto LinkedIn yourself your company onto LinkedIn which is amazing. Okay. So LinkedIn uh I which is amazing. Okay. So LinkedIn uh I always I took LinkedIn you know you have always I took LinkedIn you know you have vacuous vacuous vacuous uh AI written stupid posts all the time. uh AI written stupid posts all the time. So I keep sort of poking fun at it but So I keep sort of poking fun at it but people harness it for business for people harness it for business for reaching out to um in amazingly reaching out to um in amazingly inventive ways. So there are uh I think inventive ways. So there are uh I think Sudhir was telling me right uh or who Sudhir was telling me right uh or who was telling me there there are was telling me there there are memberships uh which which can give you memberships uh which which can give you access to the email ids of your access to the email ids of your potential customers. Yes. Yes. Yes. potential customers. Yes. Yes. Yes. There is something called sales There is something called sales navigator on LinkedIn which basically navigator on LinkedIn which basically can you can so you can figure out who is can you can so you can figure out who is the what is the company that you are the what is the company that you are looking at then you can figure out who looking at then you can figure out who is the person and you can directly write is the person and you can directly write to that person uh through that so it to that person uh through that so it gives you certain credits by which you gives you certain credits by which you can do direct uh communication so those can do direct uh communication so those are the good things yeah then let's uh a are the good things yeah then let's uh a lot of these things uh uh they are tools lot of these things uh uh they are tools and in the right the hand in the right and in the right the hand in the right hands uh they can achieve a lot yeah so hands uh they can achieve a lot yeah so you know in uh in writing as you would you know in uh in writing as you would know there something called the iceberg know there something called the iceberg theory which is that you know there's a theory which is that you know there's a little bit of the iceberg out of the little bit of the iceberg out of the water and that is what you uh actually water and that is what you uh actually give the reader and everything is under give the reader and everything is under the surface and if you do it skillfully the surface and if you do it skillfully just the right amount of dialogue just just the right amount of dialogue just the right amount of what's going on uh the right amount of what's going on uh everything else happens in the reader's everything else happens in the reader's mind similarly I'm thinking that there mind similarly I'm thinking that there is an iceberg theory of msmemes in my is an iceberg theory of msmemes in my mind which is that the msmemes that are mind which is that the msmemes that are out there those are the msmemes which out there those are the msmemes which exist but equally under the water. Uh exist but equally under the water. Uh there are far many more msmemes which there are far many more msmemes which don't exist but would exist if the don't exist but would exist if the regulatory environment was not so deeply regulatory environment was not so deeply up in different ways. So that's up in different ways. So that's something that I want to ask about that something that I want to ask about that you know we all agree that over the you know we all agree that over the decades it's been a very dire regulatory decades it's been a very dire regulatory environment in India which is why micro environment in India which is why micro industries don't get small don't get industries don't get small don't get medium scale is so difficult which is medium scale is so difficult which is which has been a bit of a mess. After 91 which has been a bit of a mess. After 91 things changed for the better in some things changed for the better in some ways and as you guys point out recently ways and as you guys point out recently things have um become better in some things have um become better in some ways. Give me an overall picture for how ways. Give me an overall picture for how you think about these regulatory you think about these regulatory complexities because I would imagine complexities because I would imagine that it's like a sort of a cholesterol that it's like a sort of a cholesterol in the system that uh you know it'll in the system that uh you know it'll block the arteries of business as it block the arteries of business as it were and uh regular heart attacks will were and uh regular heart attacks will kill off enterprise after enterprise and kill off enterprise after enterprise and I don't know why I'm coming up why am I I don't know why I'm coming up why am I coming up with these uh this bad coming up with these uh this bad metaphor. Yeah. But uh so give me a metaphor. Yeah. But uh so give me a sense of that that give me a sense of sense of that that give me a sense of standing today how bad are the standing today how bad are the regulatory complexities not just with regulatory complexities not just with regard to what what they were years ago regard to what what they were years ago but in general because if I'm a newcomer but in general because if I'm a newcomer coming into it today I only care about coming into it today I only care about the absolute state of things not right the absolute state of things not right uh right right now and not uh right right now and not that things are better but just the that things are better but just the absolute I'll give you my flavor of it absolute I'll give you my flavor of it from from a user point of view and I from from a user point of view and I like I know only my little MSME and that like I know only my little MSME and that little world that I inhabit. So I have little world that I inhabit. So I have to first one small humble brag or boast to first one small humble brag or boast or whatever it's called in about 2012 or or whatever it's called in about 2012 or 2013 or something I had my 15 minutes of 2013 or something I had my 15 minutes of fame. So this is what happened. One fame. So this is what happened. One gentleman comes from the world man, a gentleman comes from the world man, a world bank, a guy named Yanik something, world bank, a guy named Yanik something, French guy and he goes actually to the French guy and he goes actually to the factory of one of my friends who factory of one of my friends who manufactures pneumatic manufactures pneumatic manufactures pneumatic walls and that guy uh he so the the walls and that guy uh he so the the reason that World Bank guy is there is reason that World Bank guy is there is he wants to interview small MSME guys he wants to interview small MSME guys and the smaller MSMES in that and uh and the smaller MSMES in that and uh find out what their problems are and find out what their problems are and things like that and um this guy he things like that and um this guy he can't because he's French and as it is can't because he's French and as it is my friend doesn't speak English it's not my friend doesn't speak English it's not his first language so he's not his first language so he's not comfortable he just unable to understand comfortable he just unable to understand a word of what this French guy is saying a word of what this French guy is saying so he tells him that uh I know so he tells him that uh I know understand you go Mr. Shoai very nice understand you go Mr. Shoai very nice person he will tell you something and person he will tell you something and this guy without warning lands up at my this guy without warning lands up at my place and he asked me the same question place and he asked me the same question and I am able to give him a very because and I am able to give him a very because it's it's a very sore point with all MC it's it's a very sore point with all MC so I I told him itemized that you know so I I told him itemized that you know first of all we don't it's not easy for first of all we don't it's not easy for us to find land right it's riddled with us to find land right it's riddled with black money and you know industrial land black money and you know industrial land is uh it's a terrible situation you is uh it's a terrible situation you can't just can't is so hard to set up can't just can't is so hard to set up factories. You don't have the regulatory factories. You don't have the regulatory framework for getting power. Electrical framework for getting power. Electrical power is very bad. So you have to bribe power is very bad. So you have to bribe the asses of everyone to get that. Then the asses of everyone to get that. Then I told him I told him about in those days there were a lot of about in those days there were a lot of these labor regulation wars which are these labor regulation wars which are not there now. And I told him about the not there now. And I told him about the availability of availability of availability of finance. So he told me can you put us finance. So he told me can you put us all in an email. So I just put in an all in an email. So I just put in an email sent it to him and apparently he email sent it to him and apparently he was working for the chief economic was working for the chief economic adviser who happened to be Rauram Rajan. adviser who happened to be Rauram Rajan. So wow I was invited by Rauram Rajan to So wow I was invited by Rauram Rajan to Delhi to address a uh group of joint Delhi to address a uh group of joint secretaries of all sec secretary and secretaries of all sec secretary and joint secretary level at all. It was joint secretary level at all. It was amazing. And so there were amazing. And so there were representatives of large, medium, small, representatives of large, medium, small, micro, all the guys. And I was the micro, all the guys. And I was the smallest guy there. And it was a scary smallest guy there. And it was a scary hall. Okay. It was like the industry hall. Okay. It was like the industry secretary of every state. So I made this secretary of every state. So I made this presentation and uh it was basically the presentation and uh it was basically the same thing, the same laments, the things same thing, the same laments, the things that it's not easy to buy land, it's not that it's not easy to buy land, it's not easy to find power, infrastructure. easy to find power, infrastructure. Literally every it's true in Maharashtra Literally every it's true in Maharashtra uh not so much in Gujarat. Gujarat is uh not so much in Gujarat. Gujarat is much better. So I've just got a factory much better. So I've just got a factory in Gujarat. So Gujarat is a lot better in Gujarat. So Gujarat is a lot better than Maharashtra is. Every single than Maharashtra is. Every single industrial area has the worst roads industrial area has the worst roads possible. Okay. They have zero possible. Okay. They have zero residential residential residential uh they say there's just bunch of uh they say there's just bunch of factories. Who's going to work there? factories. Who's going to work there? Where are the workers going to come Where are the workers going to come from? They come from some boondock, from? They come from some boondock, right? They have to change three buses right? They have to change three buses and last mile autoria. to spend 2 hours and last mile autoria. to spend 2 hours getting to that getting to that place. All this happens. So, think about place. All this happens. So, think about a worker who's getting paid for 8 hours a worker who's getting paid for 8 hours and spending 4 hours a day commuting. and spending 4 hours a day commuting. He's actually working 12 hours, getting He's actually working 12 hours, getting paid only for it. And the government paid only for it. And the government literally doesn't do anything to improve literally doesn't do anything to improve that. They don't allow residential that. They don't allow residential establishments to come in the vicinity. establishments to come in the vicinity. So, everybody who come there has to live So, everybody who come there has to live in jopies in little rooms. That kind of in jopies in little rooms. That kind of thing. All this lament was done in thing. All this lament was done in 2012. It still exists. It still stands. 2012. It still exists. It still stands. Not a thing. So after I I told after I Not a thing. So after I I told after I made my Rogaram made my Rogaram Rajan summarized all this and and he was Rajan summarized all this and and he was so sweet. So he uh told everybody our so sweet. So he uh told everybody our problem is to ensure that Narin doesn't problem is to ensure that Narin doesn't have to face all these problems. That's have to face all these problems. That's what he what he what he said and nothing has happened in well said and nothing has happened in well they made Narin the prime minister. They they made Narin the prime minister. They made Narin the prime minister the made Narin the prime minister the second. Yeah. Like Narin has let you second. Yeah. Like Narin has let you down. If you think Narin has let Narin down. If you think Narin has let Narin down. Yeah. Nar has let down. Yeah. Nar has let No, no. We're very eloquent. Is this No, no. We're very eloquent. Is this presentation recorded online? Uh I have presentation recorded online? Uh I have those emails or I don't know whether those emails or I don't know whether it's I don't know. I have to ask uh I I it's I don't know. I have to ask uh I I don't know. I should reach out to Rauram don't know. I should reach out to Rauram Rajan and find out if there is anywhere. Rajan and find out if there is anywhere. Let me tell you something. He's not Let me tell you something. He's not going to reply to you. going to reply to you. So, so the point I was making is that uh So, so the point I was making is that uh the main regulatory problems for me is the main regulatory problems for me is uh getting place. Okay. So, after that uh getting place. Okay. So, after that humble brag, my apologies to all the humble brag, my apologies to all the readers. That is literally the only time readers. That is literally the only time apart from my wedding when when I got apart from my wedding when when I got married, 2,000 people turned up to see married, 2,000 people turned up to see what I look like. Never before, never what I look like. Never before, never after is that going to happen. And this after is that going to happen. And this one thing is some 50 joint secretaries one thing is some 50 joint secretaries from various government departments in from various government departments in various states. But but think of the various states. But but think of the constitency. Uh number one, you're still constitency. Uh number one, you're still married and number two, the MSME problem married and number two, the MSME problem still exist. So yeah, I I might have something to do So yeah, I I might have something to do with both. One is one is a tragedy, but with both. One is one is a tragedy, but we won't say which. we won't say which. No, no, one is a tragedy for Sheila. Yeah. So my part that it's very Yeah. So my part that it's very difficult to get place it's very difficult to get place it's very difficult and nobody is doing anything difficult and nobody is doing anything about one of the reasons is uh that it's about one of the reasons is uh that it's a state subject right and very difficult a state subject right and very difficult to get states to do anything radical in to get states to do anything radical in this area too many vested interests and this area too many vested interests and too many you know too many things too many you know too many things central government has mostly got its central government has mostly got its act together that's what I feel the you act together that's what I feel the you know they they know they have some kind know they they know they have some kind of policy you might not agree with some of policy you might not agree with some of the policy but there is a policy of the policy but there is a policy there is a direction there is some there is a direction there is some coherence so there is uh you know things coherence so there is uh you know things so very brief digression I won't take so very brief digression I won't take too much time on it because it's not the too much time on it because it's not the subject of the episode but a very brief subject of the episode but a very brief digression then is my question is then digression then is my question is then that I would imagine that the states that I would imagine that the states will want to compete with each other for will want to compete with each other for investment which is the whole federalist investment which is the whole federalist logic and therefore if it is a state logic and therefore if it is a state subject every state would want to fix it subject every state would want to fix it first so more investment floods in etc first so more investment floods in etc etc so what are the other vested etc so what are the other vested interests on the other side of the interests on the other side of the trade-off that stop them from doing this trade-off that stop them from doing this that's the strange just part so I the that's the strange just part so I the only people so this is what happens only people so this is what happens right so you go anywhere go to any MIDC right so you go anywhere go to any MIDC in in in Maharashtra all the plots are vacant and Maharashtra all the plots are vacant and all the plots are taken so I want to put all the plots are taken so I want to put up a factory I need a 1,000 square m up a factory I need a 1,000 square m plot there are like literally 100,000 plot there are like literally 100,000 square m plots available vacant I can't square m plots available vacant I can't be allotted a single all of them are be allotted a single all of them are taken okay this is because people are taken okay this is because people are parking their money into this these parking their money into this these things and just it's just an investment things and just it's just an investment for them. No there would be some kind of for them. No there would be some kind of a rule that you have to start a rule that you have to start construction within keep manipulating construction within keep manipulating manage that or they'll start something manage that or they'll start something if it's not vacant they'll put up a if it's not vacant they'll put up a shell and there creative ways there are shell and there creative ways there are creative ways of going around this but creative ways of going around this but this is what happens and all that land this is what happens and all that land all that valuable resource becomes all that valuable resource becomes unproductive because now it is a unproductive because now it is a storehouse for capital and one of the storehouse for capital and one of the tragedies of uh India I guess it's the tragedies of uh India I guess it's the case all over the world is the return on case all over the world is the return on investment is much higher than the investment is much higher than the return on capital employed in industry. return on capital employed in industry. So even if I was running a small So even if I was running a small industry and if I was making a lot of industry and if I was making a lot of money, I wouldn't want to plow it back money, I wouldn't want to plow it back into my industry, I would much rather into my industry, I would much rather buy some real estate or some assets buy some real estate or some assets because that would grow much faster. The because that would grow much faster. The stock market has grown a lot faster than stock market has grown a lot faster than most industries have. But isn't it the most industries have. But isn't it the case that across the world the returns case that across the world the returns on real estate are actually by far the on real estate are actually by far the worst? But in India it's it's also worst? But in India it's it's also thanks to so we have some ridiculous thanks to so we have some ridiculous levels of stamp duty transaction costs levels of stamp duty transaction costs and things like that. So everything is and things like that. So everything is incentivized for cash. So you just you incentivized for cash. So you just you know we have this enormous uh sort of know we have this enormous uh sort of movement to remove cash from movement to remove cash from transactions but real estate remains the transactions but real estate remains the one place where you know it's it's like one place where you know it's it's like you have these heat sinks in electronic you have these heat sinks in electronic circuits which sort of absorb all the circuits which sort of absorb all the heat and then take it away from the heat and then take it away from the components which will get damaged. These components which will get damaged. These things are huge money sinks. They just things are huge money sinks. They just just suck the money out and just store just suck the money out and just store it there. And uh that's something that it there. And uh that's something that governments need to figure out how to governments need to figure out how to Yeah. because I have seen that mean even Yeah. because I have seen that mean even in I I have spoken to you speaking to in I I have spoken to you speaking to some people in Kulapur and then getting some people in Kulapur and then getting a land in MIDC there is difficult I'm a land in MIDC there is difficult I'm looking for let's say 10,000 ft² 25,000 looking for let's say 10,000 ft² 25,000 ft² and getting a land in MDC. So MIDC ft² and getting a land in MDC. So MIDC or the industrial areas uh why people or the industrial areas uh why people look for land is one because there is a look for land is one because there is a concentration of uh industries which concentration of uh industries which means you get labor pretty easily. means you get labor pretty easily. Second thing is there is a reliable Second thing is there is a reliable source of electrical supply because any source of electrical supply because any other place the source of electrical other place the source of electrical supply is not supported by the supply is not supported by the government. Uh that is another thing. Uh government. Uh that is another thing. Uh third thing is water. You get a good third thing is water. You get a good amount of water the seage and all is amount of water the seage and all is taken care of and with another taken care of and with another industries around there the security industries around there the security safety is also much better. So it's a safety is also much better. So it's a it's a good advantage of staying in the it's a good advantage of staying in the pack that is what happens in midc and we pack that is what happens in midc and we say that there is so much land available say that there is so much land available we are just inhibiting only 1% of the we are just inhibiting only 1% of the world's land and whatever but world's land and whatever but mand like adjacent land will be mand like adjacent land will be available which will not have as good available which will not have as good electricity as this is so we have been electricity as this is so we have been talking about being energy surplus and talking about being energy surplus and all that but a be one week one day in a all that but a be one week one day in a week you will not have power and that's week you will not have power and that's the day you will not do any activity. So the day you will not do any activity. So if you have some uh kind of productions if you have some uh kind of productions to be done because you have orders to be to be done because you have orders to be fulfilled that one day you can't do fulfilled that one day you can't do anything because there's no power. So anything because there's no power. So you can't really really do anything you can't really really do anything about it. So that has still been the uh about it. So that has still been the uh case despite of like last 25 30 years case despite of like last 25 30 years the reforms have happened. Uh we have the reforms have happened. Uh we have invested heavily into uh power but still invested heavily into uh power but still this is this is a real ground level this is this is a real ground level reality that MIC industrial area reality that MIC industrial area That is true. And even power is very That is true. And even power is very quality of power is poor. The quality of power is poor. The availability power is they have availability power is they have arbitrary cut offs. Right? So if you arbitrary cut offs. Right? So if you want 100 kow of power, you you're above want 100 kow of power, you you're above the kilo a cutff of 50 kow, you have to the kilo a cutff of 50 kow, you have to jump through several more hoops. If you jump through several more hoops. If you want 150 kilo, you decide you want 100 want 150 kilo, you decide you want 100 kow. You set up 100 kow and your kow. You set up 100 kow and your business really took off and now you business really took off and now you want 150 kow. it'll take you months to want 150 kow. it'll take you months to get that extra 50 get that extra 50 kilow and customers don't wait right so kilow and customers don't wait right so they move on they'll go somewhere else they move on they'll go somewhere else so these are problems that are so these are problems that are completely policy problems which can be completely policy problems which can be solved by uh they there are complex solved by uh they there are complex problems they're complex problems problems they're complex problems because they're vested interests lot of because they're vested interests lot of these people are pe powerful people who these people are pe powerful people who are who want status quo so it needs some are who want status quo so it needs some really uh inventive clever uh really uh inventive clever uh bureaucracy see middle management to bureaucracy see middle management to handle the whole thing but improve but handle the whole thing but improve but the benefits will be enormous. India you the benefits will be enormous. India you know you just have to see there's uh in know you just have to see there's uh in Malad where I live there is this place Malad where I live there is this place called Bombay Tis compound now Bombay called Bombay Tis compound now Bombay Tis compound used to be a Bombay talk Tis compound used to be a Bombay talk used to be a very famous movie making used to be a very famous movie making there it was founded by legendary there it was founded by legendary Himmanuray and Dikarani and people like Himmanuray and Dikarani and people like Dilipkumar Ashokumar all these people Dilipkumar Ashokumar all these people started from there uh musician Panal started from there uh musician Panal gosh all these people they they started gosh all these people they they started from so over a period of time uh from so over a period of time uh Himmanuray Himmanuray Himmanuray died I think she had mental problem I died I think she had mental problem I don't know what happened she wasn't able don't know what happened she wasn't able to run the show the whole ship went off to run the show the whole ship went off the rails and uh there were a lot of the rails and uh there were a lot of carpenters fabricators things people who carpenters fabricators things people who put up step uh uh sets and everything put up step uh uh sets and everything for the movie they were unpaid so one for the movie they were unpaid so one fine morning some of them decided to fine morning some of them decided to just occupy the place that and Dikarani just occupy the place that and Dikarani was childless and I think she went away was childless and I think she went away whatever. So in a space of a few years whatever. So in a space of a few years that entire place got industrialized. that entire place got industrialized. They started making all these tiny They started making all these tiny little things and in that dump okay in little things and in that dump okay in there no industrial facilities there there no industrial facilities there nothing. It was one of the most vibrant nothing. It was one of the most vibrant industrial areas in Bombay. Wow. Mad you industrial areas in Bombay. Wow. Mad you could get anything I have seen. So could get anything I have seen. So there's one particular component that there's one particular component that goes into a switchk that needs to be goes into a switchk that needs to be braced two pieces of copper braced with braced two pieces of copper braced with silver and there's a Nepali guy who'd silver and there's a Nepali guy who'd sit in a gully. He didn't even have a sit in a gully. He didn't even have a shop. He would sit in the uh sort of shop. He would sit in the uh sort of shade of somebody else's shop and he shade of somebody else's shop and he used to do that brazing there and one of used to do that brazing there and one of the characteristics of brazing is that the characteristics of brazing is that there's a pull test. So you braze it and there's a pull test. So you braze it and then you try to pull the he had then you try to pull the he had absolutely awesome like he would his absolutely awesome like he would his brazing would compete with German brazing would compete with German machinery. He was that skilled those machinery. He was that skilled those kind of people they worked there kind of people they worked there and if that level of industry could and if that level of industry could happen in that small pocket. I shudder happen in that small pocket. I shudder to think what would happen if the rest to think what would happen if the rest of our industrial space was unshackled. of our industrial space was unshackled. it would have been China plus people it would have been China plus people would have been looking at China now for would have been looking at China now for India plus one India plus one strategy but we also have these uh strategy but we also have these uh challenges on uh GST the IGST CGST SGST challenges on uh GST the IGST CGST SGST getting the refunds from GST uh you pay getting the refunds from GST uh you pay somebody uh invoice with GST but that somebody uh invoice with GST but that person does not pay the GST to the person does not pay the GST to the government and it becomes your liability government and it becomes your liability stuff like that is still crazy I Think stuff like that is still crazy I Think though we have a simpler tax code but though we have a simpler tax code but those areas are also there where where those areas are also there where where we need a much more ease because uh the we need a much more ease because uh the moment uh your taxation burden uh moment uh your taxation burden uh continues you you you have the entire continues you you you have the entire working capital blocked into GST and working capital blocked into GST and then how will you pay your vendors how then how will you pay your vendors how will you pay your employees I think that will you pay your employees I think that trouble is still there I personally I'm trouble is still there I personally I'm a big fan of GST no through the earlier a big fan of GST no through the earlier regimes yes GST is amazing. My only regimes yes GST is amazing. My only complaint GS rates are too high. Uhhuh. complaint GS rates are too high. Uhhuh. But the way it works is pretty flawless, But the way it works is pretty flawless, pretty good, pretty smooth. It's just pretty good, pretty smooth. It's just very very high rates. And you know if very very high rates. And you know if the rates were lesser, people would the rates were lesser, people would spend more and and that's CGST, SGST, spend more and and that's CGST, SGST, IGST. No, I'm simply saying that if you IGST. No, I'm simply saying that if you can make it absolute simple, let's say 7 can make it absolute simple, let's say 7 and a half% one single GST and then you and a half% one single GST and then you figure out what whom to give, how what figure out what whom to give, how what to give, how to give. I mean it was to give, how to give. I mean it was supposed to be the good and simple tax supposed to be the good and simple tax but it should be called GCT because it but it should be called GCT because it became the good and complex tax. It is became the good and complex tax. It is good and simple for the people who are good and simple for the people who are running it. It's that old story of the running it. It's that old story of the Beduin. I don't know if you know the old Beduin. I don't know if you know the old story of the Beduin. So Bedoin is you story of the Beduin. So Bedoin is you know he has this camp and he sells know he has this camp and he sells camels and a British explorer comes he camels and a British explorer comes he want to cross the Sahara desert and he want to cross the Sahara desert and he goes to the Bedoin and says that I want goes to the Bedoin and says that I want to cross the Sahara uh how many days to cross the Sahara uh how many days will it take? this like it'll take you will it take? this like it'll take you 10 days and uh if I buy one of your 10 days and uh if I buy one of your camels uh how much water? So this camel camels uh how much water? So this camel if if I make him drink the camel will if if I make him drink the camel will last 10 days without water. So the last 10 days without water. So the explorer says isn't that cutting it too explorer says isn't that cutting it too fine? What if I lose my way? I said fine? What if I lose my way? I said that's going to be a problem. So he says that's going to be a problem. So he says do you have a camel which will you know do you have a camel which will you know store more water? So he says I can make store more water? So he says I can make this camel itself store more water. If this camel itself store more water. If I'll do something to him he will store I'll do something to him he will store twice the he'll be able to go 20. He'll twice the he'll be able to go 20. He'll drink double the water. So the explorer drink double the water. So the explorer says why don't you do that. So this guy says why don't you do that. So this guy says okay are you going to buy the says okay are you going to buy the camel? Says yes. That pays the price and camel? Says yes. That pays the price and all. Then he goes to the camel. The all. Then he goes to the camel. The camel is drinking water from a trough. camel is drinking water from a trough. So the bedin picks up two pieces of So the bedin picks up two pieces of brick. Okay. and he collaps it really brick. Okay. and he collaps it really hard on the camel's testicles with full hard on the camel's testicles with full force. The camel gives a whoosh of pain force. The camel gives a whoosh of pain and just out of that mind dumbing agony and just out of that mind dumbing agony just drinks up that entire system just just drinks up that entire system just says now you're done now you know he's says now you're done now you know he's drunk enough water you can take and a drunk enough water you can take and a British guy being a British guy is aast British guy being a British guy is aast at the at the at the cruelty and he asked the cruelty and he asked the bedin doesn't it hurt like hell so the bedin doesn't it hurt like hell so the bedin says only if your thumb gets bedin says only if your thumb gets caught between the bricks so this is how caught between the bricks so this is how most legislation operates right so they most legislation operates right so they don't care what the babu shouldn't get don't care what the babu shouldn't get any inconvenience the public can go any inconvenience the public can go screw themselves so I I want to tell you screw themselves so I I want to tell you three stories and there's a point to three stories and there's a point to these stories and apologies Narin for these stories and apologies Narin for telling stories while you are present telling stories while you are present it's yeah story number one and you I it's yeah story number one and you I think you guys would know these stories think you guys would know these stories uh story number one is when these dudes uh story number one is when these dudes in Bihar stole a bridge right so there in Bihar stole a bridge right so there were these thieves posing as irrigation were these thieves posing as irrigation department officials. They stole a 60 ft department officials. They stole a 60 ft 500 ton steel bridge in Amyawar village 500 ton steel bridge in Amyawar village of Bihar's Rotas district, right? They of Bihar's Rotas district, right? They used bulldozers, gas cutters and used bulldozers, gas cutters and basically just stole the freaking bridge basically just stole the freaking bridge in broad daylight. You know, the in broad daylight. You know, the villagers saw them around and thought villagers saw them around and thought they must be from irrigation department they must be from irrigation department or whatever. Story one. Story two is or whatever. Story one. Story two is that in Bihar's Darbanga district, a that in Bihar's Darbanga district, a bunch of enterprising folk stole a pond. bunch of enterprising folk stole a pond. So there was a pond one day and the next So there was a pond one day and the next day there was no pond. The pond was day there was no pond. The pond was gone. And one has to wonder if there is gone. And one has to wonder if there is a nexus between the bridge thieves and a nexus between the bridge thieves and the pond thieves because indeed one can the pond thieves because indeed one can see how there is sort of uh integration see how there is sort of uh integration happening there as it were even vertical happening there as it were even vertical integration because and the third one is integration because and the third one is a recent thing where a bridge wasn't a recent thing where a bridge wasn't stolen. An illegal bridge was built that stolen. An illegal bridge was built that a bunch of Bihar real estate brokers a bunch of Bihar real estate brokers wanted land prices where they were to go wanted land prices where they were to go up. So they built a bridge. They up. So they built a bridge. They literally got a bridge built uh in Kari literally got a bridge built uh in Kari Koshi River in Ward number four in Koshi River in Ward number four in Rahmed Nagar area of Puna town. Wow. Rahmed Nagar area of Puna town. Wow. Right. And then the Punea Municipal Right. And then the Punea Municipal Corporation found out and now the Puna Corporation found out and now the Puna Municipal Corporation with the last news Municipal Corporation with the last news that I get uh wants to tear the bridge that I get uh wants to tear the bridge down. And I am like this is insane right down. And I am like this is insane right that uh these guys got the bridge built that uh these guys got the bridge built because they're real estate developers. because they're real estate developers. They want the price of the land to go up They want the price of the land to go up and hey there's a bridge is connected by and hey there's a bridge is connected by bridge the price duly goes up. It was a bridge the price duly goes up. It was a job of the Punea Municipal Corporation job of the Punea Municipal Corporation to build that bridge. Somebody to build that bridge. Somebody built it for them at private cost. This built it for them at private cost. This public good was constructed and now they public good was constructed and now they want to spend public money breaking down want to spend public money breaking down the public good constructed at private the public good constructed at private cost. But my larger point here which I cost. But my larger point here which I think both of you will empathize with think both of you will empathize with and goes to the heart of today's episode and goes to the heart of today's episode is that we are a enterprising is that we are a enterprising people. There is tremendous people. There is tremendous entrepreneurship in this country. There entrepreneurship in this country. There is tremendous creativity in this is tremendous creativity in this country. We can do anything. The country. We can do anything. The question is is the ground on which we question is is the ground on which we are being asked to dream fertile enough? are being asked to dream fertile enough? You know Bihar is one of the centers in You know Bihar is one of the centers in this country of online scams. There are this country of online scams. There are entire villages which are basically call entire villages which are basically call centers and they are scamming people centers and they are scamming people again stuff that I've written about and again stuff that I've written about and I'll put those links in the show note I'll put those links in the show note right and throughout this country in right and throughout this country in every part of this country there is so every part of this country there is so much entrepreneurial energy and it is a much entrepreneurial energy and it is a great tragedy that this energy doesn't great tragedy that this energy doesn't find adequate expression because of find adequate expression because of things like all of this regulatory uh things like all of this regulatory uh nonsense that you mentioned but the the nonsense that you mentioned but the the these were the broad points right these were the broad points right there's a problem with land there's a there's a problem with land there's a problem with uh you know stuff like problem with uh you know stuff like electricity and getting all of that electricity and getting all of that going. What else? And have things gotten going. What else? And have things gotten better and should someone who wants to better and should someone who wants to be an entrepreneur today uh or should be an entrepreneur today uh or should someone who is a small business today someone who is a small business today making a cr of profit a year should that making a cr of profit a year should that person want to expand or you know can person want to expand or you know can that person dream differently what what that person dream differently what what is uh how how much of a barrier uh are is uh how how much of a barrier uh are these barriers in a nutshell? I don't these barriers in a nutshell? I don't think uh uh I think uh these kind of think uh uh I think uh these kind of constraints so so at one side we will constraints so so at one side we will have a China where the state is so kind have a China where the state is so kind of involved into getting everybody off of involved into getting everybody off the uh kind of ground and grow making the uh kind of ground and grow making them grow. So I think that's something them grow. So I think that's something that is not going to be possible. Uh we that is not going to be possible. Uh we are wanting to say that key how can we are wanting to say that key how can we become China? I think becoming China is become China? I think becoming China is a daydream. I think that's gone. We a daydream. I think that's gone. We should not even look at that. how can we should not even look at that. how can we pick up best practices from there and do pick up best practices from there and do maybe 20% 30%, 40% 100% possible because maybe 20% 30%, 40% 100% possible because that by that time China also is moving that by that time China also is moving forward they have already taken their forward they have already taken their steps so that's not going to happen but steps so that's not going to happen but with this enterprise the entrepreneural with this enterprise the entrepreneural spirit that we have with the kind of spirit that we have with the kind of ingenuity of ideas that we have the ingenuity of ideas that we have the perseverance because because the perseverance because because the constraints are so heavy our constraints are so heavy our perseverance is much much much much perseverance is much much much much better we are very good at uh kind of better we are very good at uh kind of uh showcasing our skills. We are very uh showcasing our skills. We are very good at building things up. So I think good at building things up. So I think uh if we all are a little more uh if we all are a little more structured, if we all are little more uh structured, if we all are little more uh kind of onto the ground and get things kind of onto the ground and get things in u system uh a lot can be achieved. uh in u system uh a lot can be achieved. uh I think now uh with the changing world I think now uh with the changing world with the accessibility of yes capital is with the accessibility of yes capital is not great but for a good idea and a good not great but for a good idea and a good executor capital is not a challenge. I executor capital is not a challenge. I think capital uh is available. If you think capital uh is available. If you are not having uh the government uh or are not having uh the government uh or the bank finance, there are private the the bank finance, there are private the P investments are there. The angel P investments are there. The angel investments are there. Uh there are investments are there. Uh there are micro investments are there. So multiple micro investments are there. So multiple ways of uh getting your investments ways of uh getting your investments provided you have a right idea and a provided you have a right idea and a good execution capability. So that is good execution capability. So that is not a challenge. More or less the not a challenge. More or less the regulatory burden except for the GST regulatory burden except for the GST rates high and all that but it is same rates high and all that but it is same for everybody. So you have to kind of uh for everybody. So you have to kind of uh take that leap. I think it is on to the take that leap. I think it is on to the entrepreneurs that they change the way entrepreneurs that they change the way they work. They change the way uh they they work. They change the way uh they look at uh the industry and uh take it look at uh the industry and uh take it forward from there. I think it is all up forward from there. I think it is all up to onto entrepreneurs. Yes. Um we need to onto entrepreneurs. Yes. Um we need clusters, we need uh land, we need clusters, we need uh land, we need electricity. Yes. We need it. But but it electricity. Yes. We need it. But but it is it is not going to come overnight is it is not going to come overnight from anywhere. And there are so many from anywhere. And there are so many industries who are already which are industries who are already which are already performing uh pretty well. We already performing uh pretty well. We have moved to three three and a half have moved to three three and a half billion trillion economy. We are looking billion trillion economy. We are looking towards 6 and 8 billion uh trillion towards 6 and 8 billion uh trillion economy. Uh I think it is all up to economy. Uh I think it is all up to entrepreneurs that India will grow for entrepreneurs that India will grow for next 10 15 20 years at 6 7% easily. uh next 10 15 20 years at 6 7% easily. uh that is going to be there irrespective that is going to be there irrespective of what happens in the world whether of what happens in the world whether there is a Trump or no Trump there is a there is a Trump or no Trump there is a China doing this or that or there is a China doing this or that or there is a war in Ukraine I think we will grow uh 6 war in Ukraine I think we will grow uh 6 7% easily that is that is given for our 7% easily that is that is given for our population we have such a fantastic population we have such a fantastic domestic market which is so huge that we domestic market which is so huge that we can do all sorts of experimentation and can do all sorts of experimentation and build our successes here I think uh it build our successes here I think uh it is all up to entrepreneurs uh that they is all up to entrepreneurs uh that they put their head down focus on the work at put their head down focus on the work at hand and I think um build what needs to hand and I think um build what needs to be built. That's and also there's this be built. That's and also there's this element of stoicism which comes element of stoicism which comes naturally to most MSME entrepreneurs in naturally to most MSME entrepreneurs in India is uh principle number one of India is uh principle number one of stoicism is you focus only on the things stoicism is you focus only on the things you can change. You don't look at things you can change. You don't look at things you can't change and all the MSME guys you can't change and all the MSME guys get it. So whenever there is some really get it. So whenever there is some really harsh change in the business environment harsh change in the business environment owing to regulatory changes that makes owing to regulatory changes that makes it difficult for someone people uh find it difficult for someone people uh find their ways around it and there there are their ways around it and there there are now new constraints right so anyone now new constraints right so anyone who's able to operate better in that who's able to operate better in that constraint is that old story of two constraint is that old story of two friends in the uh woods and uh they hear friends in the uh woods and uh they hear the roar of a tiger and one fellow takes the roar of a tiger and one fellow takes takes out his running shoes and the takes out his running shoes and the other guy says you can't outrun the other guy says you can't outrun the tiger no I want to outrun you so this is tiger no I want to outrun you so this is what happens whenever sort of you know what happens whenever sort of you know the these kind of hurdles present the these kind of hurdles present themselves the tragedy of course is that themselves the tragedy of course is that while they make us you know more while they make us you know more efficient within our own millu overall efficient within our own millu overall as a country become less competitive and as a country become less competitive and in many areas that does happen but I do in many areas that does happen but I do get the sense that at a very meta level get the sense that at a very meta level the government also understands that you the government also understands that you know a lot a lot of these things are know a lot a lot of these things are mindless and they they will go but yeah mindless and they they will go but yeah lot of stoicism necessary to be a MSM lot of stoicism necessary to be a MSM guy I I like your story about the tiger guy I I like your story about the tiger especially because it is especially because it is autobiographical though you didn't tell autobiographical though you didn't tell the full story let me tell you the story the full story let me tell you the story so Narin and I were one day in a jungle so Narin and I were one day in a jungle and we heard a tiger and Narin suddenly and we heard a tiger and Narin suddenly because I don't know how the hell he had because I don't know how the hell he had running shoes with him but he suddenly running shoes with him but he suddenly took out running shoes from his backpack took out running shoes from his backpack and sat to put his running shoes on. And and sat to put his running shoes on. And I said, "Nar, what are you doing? You I said, "Nar, what are you doing? You can't outrun the tiger." And Narin said, can't outrun the tiger." And Narin said, "Look, I don't have to outrun the tiger. "Look, I don't have to outrun the tiger. I just have to outrun you." At which I just have to outrun you." At which point I started running. And the tiger point I started running. And the tiger came and ate Narin because he was still came and ate Narin because he was still putting on his shoe, right? And and then putting on his shoe, right? And and then of course the tiger ate me after that of course the tiger ate me after that because it was still hungry and I'm because it was still hungry and I'm Bengali and can't run fast enough. So Bengali and can't run fast enough. So both of us are not even sitting here. both of us are not even sitting here. But speaking of tigers sud you mentioned But speaking of tigers sud you mentioned that uh you know we we can grow at six that uh you know we we can grow at six 7% over the next 15 20 years and ghee 7% over the next 15 20 years and ghee only not shakur because sugar is poison only not shakur because sugar is poison but so my my question there is that I but so my my question there is that I agree with you that it is a time of agree with you that it is a time of great optimism the world is changing in great optimism the world is changing in amazing ways opportunities are great amazing ways opportunities are great give me a sense of what some of these give me a sense of what some of these opportunities are for MSMES in India so opportunities are for MSMES in India so there are multiple sectors in India there are multiple sectors in India which are doing Good. So let's look at which are doing Good. So let's look at around six or seven sectors that we are around six or seven sectors that we are good at. One is basically uh textile and good at. One is basically uh textile and apparel uh which is what we are good at. apparel uh which is what we are good at. We must be doing around 200 billion of We must be doing around 200 billion of total turnover and almost around 20 25% total turnover and almost around 20 25% of that is exports and there are typical of that is exports and there are typical again uh areas where this happens. So again uh areas where this happens. So Tirur we have we have Surat, we have Tirur we have we have Surat, we have Ludjana, we have some part in Kohimur Ludjana, we have some part in Kohimur and Mumbai. These are the kind of and Mumbai. These are the kind of clusters where textile apparels is clusters where textile apparels is great. Uh we are extremely good at gems great. Uh we are extremely good at gems and jewelry. Gems and jewelry is almost and jewelry. Gems and jewelry is almost around 100 billion uh kind of 85 90 around 100 billion uh kind of 85 90 billion roughly out of which almost billion roughly out of which almost around 40 billion is export. Uh I have around 40 billion is export. Uh I have few friends who have been telling me few friends who have been telling me that a lot of because the China now has that a lot of because the China now has a higher tariff on everything for US and a higher tariff on everything for US and most of the market Indian people do is most of the market Indian people do is generally in US. US is heavy almost generally in US. US is heavy almost around 60% goes to US around 20 25% goes around 60% goes to US around 20 25% goes to Europe so gems and jewelry is another to Europe so gems and jewelry is another interesting area again we have Bombay we interesting area again we have Bombay we have Surat we have Jaipur we have have Surat we have Jaipur we have Kolkata we have Rajcot these are some Kolkata we have Rajcot these are some clusters for uh the uh this market now clusters for uh the uh this market now gems jeweler is again a typical uh MSME gems jeweler is again a typical uh MSME so uh you will have the designers and so uh you will have the designers and all in micro you will have small and all in micro you will have small and medium enterprises so ranging from 70 80 medium enterprises so ranging from 70 80 crores up to uh 300 400 crores. Um a crores up to uh 300 400 crores. Um a friend of mine does almost around 200 cr friend of mine does almost around 200 cr majority of it is uh going to US. So majority of it is uh going to US. So that's an interesting sector for MSMES. that's an interesting sector for MSMES. Third is leather and footwear. Leather Third is leather and footwear. Leather and footwear is almost around 1920 and footwear is almost around 1920 billion 2020 22 billion uh kind of billion 2020 22 billion uh kind of opportunity out of which again uh 1/4 opportunity out of which again uh 1/4 25% is uh uh export and that's kind of 25% is uh uh export and that's kind of again growing pretty fast because uh again growing pretty fast because uh China is getting out of footwear leather China is getting out of footwear leather and footwear because they want to move and footwear because they want to move up to the higher chain and that's why up to the higher chain and that's why they are getting people out and it is no they are getting people out and it is no more uh cheap uh China Chinese labor is more uh cheap uh China Chinese labor is no more cheap we have been uh talking no more cheap we have been uh talking about everybody says keeps talking about about everybody says keeps talking about China's labor is cheap. It is no more China's labor is cheap. It is no more cheap nowadays. They use a lot of cheap nowadays. They use a lot of technology and because they have built technology and because they have built economies of scale uh they can really economies of scale uh they can really really produce cheap but their labor is really produce cheap but their labor is no more cheap. But then uh there is a no more cheap. But then uh there is a lot of artal work in the leather and lot of artal work in the leather and footwear and we have that we have uh footwear and we have that we have uh places like Chennai, we have Kpur, we places like Chennai, we have Kpur, we have Agra, we have Kolkata, we have uh have Agra, we have Kolkata, we have uh Ranipat. These are the areas where Ranipat. These are the areas where leather and footwear is great. uh we leather and footwear is great. uh we have a very vibrant auto components have a very vibrant auto components industry and we do quite a bit of industry and we do quite a bit of export. So almost around uh 80 uh export. So almost around uh 80 uh billion uh is auto uh the the auto billion uh is auto uh the the auto anxillary and auto components out of anxillary and auto components out of which almost around 1/4 around 20 25 which almost around 1/4 around 20 25 billion is export and uh auto sector has billion is export and uh auto sector has a good employment. So almost around 30 a good employment. So almost around 30 40 million people are in this particular 40 million people are in this particular sector. You I think your MSME also comes sector. You I think your MSME also comes as an autoary. We don't export much but as an autoary. We don't export much but we do export a little bit. Yeah. Yeah. we do export a little bit. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So that's again Pune, Chennai, uh, Yeah. So that's again Pune, Chennai, uh, Guram, Manesaur, Ahmedabad, Aurangabad. Guram, Manesaur, Ahmedabad, Aurangabad. These are the Yes. Scoda is in These are the Yes. Scoda is in Aurangabad, Pune is Baj and then Aurangabad, Pune is Baj and then surprisingly critical areas. So they're surprisingly critical areas. So they're like very critical components. like very critical components. Interesting anecdote. Um, someone I know Interesting anecdote. Um, someone I know works in Detroit uh area. Used to work works in Detroit uh area. Used to work for GM and now he's moved somewhere for GM and now he's moved somewhere else. But he was telling me so he's he else. But he was telling me so he's he is a Maharashtan guy and uh he is they is a Maharashtan guy and uh he is they have a very strong Maharashtrian have a very strong Maharashtrian community in the Detroit area. Mhm. Why? community in the Detroit area. Mhm. Why? Because lot of the automotive Because lot of the automotive ancillaries there. Okay. They've hired ancillaries there. Okay. They've hired from Pune. from Pune. from Pune. They've poached people from Pune They've poached people from Pune factories and taken them to America. factories and taken them to America. Wow. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And even Wow. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And even Bhagwaser they had a plant in Detroit Bhagwaser they had a plant in Detroit area also. So they they are also in area also. So they they are also in autoillary and he had one plant in autoillary and he had one plant in Detroit. So so there are a lot of and Detroit. So so there are a lot of and see Punea has an very interesting see Punea has an very interesting combination of the automobile industry combination of the automobile industry being there then software development being there then software development happened. So as these the cars are happened. So as these the cars are becoming more and more software oriented becoming more and more software oriented that entire embedded software also now that entire embedded software also now comes from Pune. So this is a very comes from Pune. So this is a very interesting combination very very uh interesting combination very very uh special purpose. Your regular software special purpose. Your regular software guys can't program the embedded guys can't program the embedded softwares are very different the system softwares are very different the system softwares. Then we have specialty softwares. Then we have specialty chemicals. So that's another huge chemicals. So that's another huge opportunity almost around 250 billion uh opportunity almost around 250 billion uh kind of uh yeah 240 50 billion kind of a kind of uh yeah 240 50 billion kind of a turnover almost around 30 35 billion out turnover almost around 30 35 billion out of that is exports again uh there are of that is exports again uh there are typical clusters like Ankleshwar Wapi typical clusters like Ankleshwar Wapi dah which are Gujarat is good and huge dah which are Gujarat is good and huge in specialty chemicals Maharashtra we in specialty chemicals Maharashtra we have our own tarapur industrial area have our own tarapur industrial area that's there then we have that's there then we have pharmaceuticals pharmaceuticals is pharmaceuticals pharmaceuticals is another big uh opportunity another big uh opportunity uh where growth is there. MSMES are lot uh where growth is there. MSMES are lot uh companies with turnover of around 70 uh companies with turnover of around 70 80 crores up to 500 crores quite a bit 80 crores up to 500 crores quite a bit quite a lot uh they do contract quite a lot uh they do contract manufacturing the companies which depend manufacturing the companies which depend upon pharmaceutical companies uh is also upon pharmaceutical companies uh is also another so equipment manufacturing another so equipment manufacturing companies inspection companies then companies inspection companies then there is a packaging industry there are there is a packaging industry there are bottles which are made a whole lot of bottles which are made a whole lot of industries which depend on the uh industries which depend on the uh pharmaceutical industry and they are all pharmaceutical industry and they are all again MSMES uh again Hyderabad is a big again MSMES uh again Hyderabad is a big uh kind of a place for pharmaceutical uh kind of a place for pharmaceutical Mumbai, Pune, Ahmedabad, some Bangalore Mumbai, Pune, Ahmedabad, some Bangalore because micro yeah micro is in uh because micro yeah micro is in uh Bangalore. So these are the sectors. Now Bangalore. So these are the sectors. Now if we go one by one and look at what is if we go one by one and look at what is basically happening in each of the basically happening in each of the sector that uh the the there are there sector that uh the the there are there are are are textilememes they are growing uh because textilememes they are growing uh because there is a definite China plus one there is a definite China plus one strategy post covid a lot of companies strategy post covid a lot of companies even a friend of mine is into uh kitchen even a friend of mine is into uh kitchen you have met him so kitchen and kitchen you have met him so kitchen and kitchen equipment and stuff like that they make equipment and stuff like that they make cutlery and the entire world chain is cutlery and the entire world chain is saying that yes we will continue buying saying that yes we will continue buying from China but today we buy 100% from from China but today we buy 100% from China tomorrow we want to buy let's say China tomorrow we want to buy let's say 70% we have 30%. Now when you talk about 70% we have 30%. Now when you talk about 30% you might find it very small but 30% you might find it very small but when it comes to the global numbers it when it comes to the global numbers it is really I call it the creepy China is really I call it the creepy China opportunity. So China creeps everybody opportunity. So China creeps everybody out in the west. So you'll get that out in the west. So you'll get that creepy China premium here. So if they're creepy China premium here. So if they're paying China 100 rupees, they will paying China 100 rupees, they will gladly give you 110 or 120 depending on gladly give you 110 or 120 depending on how creepy the Chinese supplier is just how creepy the Chinese supplier is just to get the same level of Yeah. So I to get the same level of Yeah. So I think French shoring is the word the new think French shoring is the word the new word that I learned. Yeah. I didn't know word that I learned. Yeah. I didn't know this word. So offshoring I knew this word. So offshoring I knew onshoring I know French shoring is a onshoring I know French shoring is a friendly country where you want to friendly country where you want to offload your work and start buying from offload your work and start buying from that country. So I think uh that's an that country. So I think uh that's an interesting opportunity that we are interesting opportunity that we are seeing. Yeah, I think replacing China, seeing. Yeah, I think replacing China, India will replace China and India will India will replace China and India will basically everybody will buy from India. basically everybody will buy from India. That is not going to happen. So, That is not going to happen. So, Southeast Asia may we have uh Thailand, Southeast Asia may we have uh Thailand, we have Vietnam, we have India, Sri we have Vietnam, we have India, Sri Lanka, some part of Bangladesh. I think Lanka, some part of Bangladesh. I think all these countries put together we will all these countries put together we will create a kind of a uh logistics chain create a kind of a uh logistics chain and that chain collectively will maybe and that chain collectively will maybe replace China in some way. Uh we also replace China in some way. Uh we also have gems and jewelry. Again we have a have gems and jewelry. Again we have a huge domestic market. Our own domestic huge domestic market. Our own domestic demand for jewelry is good. We are mad demand for jewelry is good. We are mad people after gold. We have so much of people after gold. We have so much of gold in our society itself that that gold in our society itself that that particular thing is taken care of. So particular thing is taken care of. So that is an good. I in fact heard Narin's that is an good. I in fact heard Narin's mother say about mother say about him. So demand from gems is certainly him. So demand from gems is certainly high. So again uh in the uh in the high. So again uh in the leather also uh global supply uh leather also uh global supply uh realignment that is happening China is realignment that is happening China is wanting to get out of uh low cost wanting to get out of uh low cost because they want to get their uh GDPs because they want to get their uh GDPs up. I think India GDP per capita is up. I think India GDP per capita is around 78,000 USD. China is somewhere around 78,000 USD. China is somewhere around 23 24,000. US is around 70 to around 23 24,000. US is around 70 to 73,000. China wants to move from that. 73,000. China wants to move from that. So China China wants has to go three So China China wants has to go three times to catch up US. We have to go times to catch up US. We have to go three times to catch up China. That three times to catch up China. That means we have to we have around 9 or 10 means we have to we have around 9 or 10 times to catch up US and uh so everybody times to catch up US and uh so everybody is trying to move and when you are is trying to move and when you are moving your population is same you want moving your population is same you want to move up the chain you will give away to move up the chain you will give away something which is low cost something which is low cost manufacturing and you will move to manufacturing and you will move to higher and I think China has created higher and I think China has created almost around 15 billion opportunity almost around 15 billion opportunity just in uh footwear and leather wear and just in uh footwear and leather wear and that is something that we can pick up. that is something that we can pick up. Auto components we have been always very Auto components we have been always very strong. Our local demand is has been strong. Our local demand is has been very good. Again China plus so I think very good. Again China plus so I think every sector that we have India 78 every sector that we have India 78 sectors that we talked about everywhere sectors that we talked about everywhere there is a China plus one opportunity there is a China plus one opportunity which is there we need to align our get which is there we need to align our get our act together. we have to work little our act together. we have to work little smart uh people are ready to give you smart uh people are ready to give you little premium because uh if if you have little premium because uh if if you have 66% coming from China 33% coming from 66% coming from China 33% coming from India and allied places then what India and allied places then what happens is that even if you give India happens is that even if you give India uh around uh 10% high higher your uh around uh 10% high higher your effective price is going to increase effective price is going to increase only 3% because you're still buying from only 3% because you're still buying from China 66%. So you have created some kind China 66%. So you have created some kind of a mood away from China but still your of a mood away from China but still your pricing would be would not be changing pricing would be would not be changing more than 3 three and a half%. So I more than 3 three and a half%. So I think that's an advantage that we are think that's an advantage that we are seeing. Before I go to my next question, seeing. Before I go to my next question, I want to express my nationalistic pride I want to express my nationalistic pride that there is one field in which we are that there is one field in which we are world leaders. Narendra Shinoi. Can you world leaders. Narendra Shinoi. Can you guess what it is? No no no actually guess what it is? No no no actually that's a good guess. We should figure that's a good guess. We should figure that out. Yeah. WhatsApp uncles. Because that out. Yeah. WhatsApp uncles. Because because because because because of the manufacturing hub of because of the manufacturing hub of Uncle Ishwar, Uncle Ishwar, as as Uncle Ishwar, Uncle Ishwar, as as mentioned a few minutes ago by Sudir, mentioned a few minutes ago by Sudir, here's here's my question. Our biggest here's here's my question. Our biggest opportunity obviously is to be a global opportunity obviously is to be a global player, is to compete in the global player, is to compete in the global marketplace and that automatically marketplace and that automatically forces us to lift our standards to adopt forces us to lift our standards to adopt best practices and etc etc. It's a best practices and etc etc. It's a beautiful virtuous cycle set into beautiful virtuous cycle set into motion. But we are living in motion. But we are living in geopolitically complex times like we are geopolitically complex times like we are recording this on April 25th. God knows recording this on April 25th. God knows what will happen between the recording what will happen between the recording and the episode actually coming out. and the episode actually coming out. Things are moving very fast. There is a Things are moving very fast. There is a trade war. Uh the Trump tariffs are a trade war. Uh the Trump tariffs are a complete uh disaster. Even if you complete uh disaster. Even if you backpedal on some of them, the backpedal on some of them, the uncertainty that is created in the uncertainty that is created in the environment bears a heavy cost. And like environment bears a heavy cost. And like just for example, Sudir you mentioned just for example, Sudir you mentioned the pharmaceutical industry. Now India's the pharmaceutical industry. Now India's pharmaceutical industry depends on APIs pharmaceutical industry depends on APIs and 80 to 90% most APIs are manufactured and 80 to 90% most APIs are manufactured in China. At some point if China uses in China. At some point if China uses that as a strategic leverage against that as a strategic leverage against India, it becomes incredibly uh India, it becomes incredibly uh difficult for us. It can create a difficult for us. It can create a massive disruption in the pharma massive disruption in the pharma industry. Now uh um AJ and I just industry. Now uh um AJ and I just released an episode of Everything is released an episode of Everything is Everything today which is April 25th Everything today which is April 25th which is episode 96 where at the end we which is episode 96 where at the end we actually argue that this can be an actually argue that this can be an incredible opportunity for India because incredible opportunity for India because um there is already and he says he hears um there is already and he says he hears from insiders on the government that from insiders on the government that there is already a move towards removing there is already a move towards removing many of our tariffs barriers and our many of our tariffs barriers and our dream of course is that we have zero dream of course is that we have zero tariff barriers and zero non-tariff tariff barriers and zero non-tariff barriers as well. Whether or not that barriers as well. Whether or not that happens, we don't know. But a happens, we don't know. But a significant reduction will be enormously significant reduction will be enormously good for our own people, for our own good for our own people, for our own manufacturers because inputs get so much manufacturers because inputs get so much cheaper and even for our exporters cheaper and even for our exporters because obviously they'll be because obviously they'll be reciprocated elsewhere and it is just a reciprocated elsewhere and it is just a win-win game all around. But I want to win-win game all around. But I want to ask you that given global environment, ask you that given global environment, what what do you guys make of this? what what do you guys make of this? Because back in the day, you could take Because back in the day, you could take globalization for granted, right? The globalization for granted, right? The term Washington consensus was coined in term Washington consensus was coined in 1989. assumed that there was a consensus 1989. assumed that there was a consensus throughout the world that there is free throughout the world that there is free trade. You know, uh tariffs uh on ind on trade. You know, uh tariffs uh on ind on heavy industries in the western world heavy industries in the western world went down from around 40% at the time of went down from around 40% at the time of uh when World War II ended to less than uh when World War II ended to less than 5% in 2000. And you would have imagined 5% in 2000. And you would have imagined that okay, as far as that is concerned, that okay, as far as that is concerned, it's the end of history. Globalization it's the end of history. Globalization has come. Today, globalization is under has come. Today, globalization is under deep threat. Uh you know, China is deep threat. Uh you know, China is playing a spoilers uh role. Uh Donald playing a spoilers uh role. Uh Donald Trump is going uh ballistic. their Trump is going uh ballistic. their fundamental economic thinking itself fundamental economic thinking itself seems flawed. How do we look at this at seems flawed. How do we look at this at one level from an Indian consumer point one level from an Indian consumer point of view and policy point of view? Yeah, of view and policy point of view? Yeah, I can see the silver lining that maybe I can see the silver lining that maybe in all of this chaos we reduce our in all of this chaos we reduce our tariffs which is very good for everyone tariffs which is very good for everyone here given that so many of our MSMES here given that so many of our MSMES would want to play in the global would want to play in the global marketplace and indeed need that global marketplace and indeed need that global marketplace to take the next step marketplace to take the next step forward. How should we think about all forward. How should we think about all of this? So my personal thing is we of this? So my personal thing is we still don't have several key things. So still don't have several key things. So one of my friends long ago now know he one of my friends long ago now know he back in the day uh the government used back in the day uh the government used to give something known as Dzone to give something known as Dzone incentives. So Dzone incentives if you incentives. So Dzone incentives if you put your district your factory in Barara put your district your factory in Barara Jala in middle of nowhere northern Jala in middle of nowhere northern Maharashtra eastern Maharashtra eastern Maharashtra eastern Maharashtra you would not have to pay Maharashtra you would not have to pay any sales tax. So that was the any sales tax. So that was the incentive and unsurprisingly nobody that incentive and unsurprisingly nobody that wasn't an incentive was strong enough wasn't an incentive was strong enough for any people would put namas large for any people would put namas large companies would go and put up put up companies would go and put up put up factories there but everything would be factories there but everything would be manage manufactured somewhere in Pune or manage manufactured somewhere in Pune or Mumbai shipped there labeled packed Mumbai shipped there labeled packed something and shipped from there. So something and shipped from there. So that that was the kind of thing. So one that that was the kind of thing. So one of my friends had said that why are of my friends had said that why are these people giving us these incentives? these people giving us these incentives? All they need to give us is good roads All they need to give us is good roads and electricity and that thing is still not electricity and that thing is still not present here. All you need so good roads present here. All you need so good roads seem to be getting there at least on a seem to be getting there at least on a national level. The backbones are there. national level. The backbones are there. Interior roads are still a mess in every Interior roads are still a mess in every single state. So they need to work on single state. So they need to work on that. Uh we have tremendous amounts of that. Uh we have tremendous amounts of uh resources. I mean we have uh we have uh resources. I mean we have uh we have the power generation is excellent. It's the power generation is excellent. It's just matter of correcting policies and just matter of correcting policies and making sure that industry pays a hell of making sure that industry pays a hell of a lot of lot more for power than a lot of lot more for power than everyone else. We pay three or four everyone else. We pay three or four times what residential times what residential uh users pay and we still don't get uh users pay and we still don't get power. I have a factory in one power. I have a factory in one uh area in uh Maharashtra where we have uh area in uh Maharashtra where we have typically 6 to 8 hours power outage like typically 6 to 8 hours power outage like it's 25 km from Bombay for no it's 25 km from Bombay for no discernable reason. So those thing need discernable reason. So those thing need to be and they need to be improved to be and they need to be improved really quickly because we have a small really quickly because we have a small window when all this nonsense happened. window when all this nonsense happened. If China capitalates, if it sucks up to If China capitalates, if it sucks up to Donald Trump and it gets back into Donald Trump and it gets back into unlikely, but if they do, then that unlikely, but if they do, then that window could just vanish overnight. So, window could just vanish overnight. So, we need to take that window and make we need to take that window and make sure that we can deliver otherwise sure that we can deliver otherwise there's no point. I mean, we the whole there's no point. I mean, we the whole world is huge. We have to we have to world is huge. We have to we have to crank up our manufacturing like 10x. So, crank up our manufacturing like 10x. So, what you're saying is what you're saying is that if we just control this here, give that if we just control this here, give us good roads and good electricity, our us good roads and good electricity, our guys Our guys are enough to get the job done. Our guys are enough to get the job done. By the way, for power, I would recommend By the way, for power, I would recommend both of you watch episode 40 of both of you watch episode 40 of Everything is Everything on Power and Everything is Everything on Power and episode 78 of Everything is Everything. episode 78 of Everything is Everything. Portable nuclear reactors could be the Portable nuclear reactors could be the solution for all of this. Just buy a solution for all of this. Just buy a portable nuclear reactor from Demart and portable nuclear reactor from Demart and uh you know take it over to your MIDC uh you know take it over to your MIDC plot um install and yeah everything is plot um install and yeah everything is sorted. But Yeah, but I think uh yeah sorted. But Yeah, but I think uh yeah yeah yeah I I believe that uh see what yeah yeah I I believe that uh see what is happening is that when you are is happening is that when you are looking at the geopolitical uh scenario looking at the geopolitical uh scenario um there is going to be uh uh the fight um there is going to be uh uh the fight between China and US u maybe you change between China and US u maybe you change the regimes also maybe Trump will go and the regimes also maybe Trump will go and Xiinping will go but I think that those Xiinping will go but I think that those countries have come to certain point countries have come to certain point where the leader really is not going to where the leader really is not going to change anything great yes Trump is like change anything great yes Trump is like moving it everybody thought that the the moving it everybody thought that the the the tariffs would be there and then all the tariffs would be there and then all other countries tariffs are basically other countries tariffs are basically put down to 10% more 10% only so earlier put down to 10% more 10% only so earlier it was so India had a tariff of 5 and a it was so India had a tariff of 5 and a half% with China with the US now this half% with China with the US now this additional 10% so 15%. Now 5% is what additional 10% so 15%. Now 5% is what everybody is figuring out how do you everybody is figuring out how do you give discount of 5% and everybody's give discount of 5% and everybody's figuring out and uh the ultimate duty is figuring out and uh the ultimate duty is coming to around 10%. So which is like coming to around 10%. So which is like uh Trump is happy that key I'm getting uh Trump is happy that key I'm getting 10% which is I have doubled government 10% which is I have doubled government coffers straight away by this. Uh the coffers straight away by this. Uh the end user is going to get impacted by end user is going to get impacted by only 5%. And if it is in luxury industry only 5%. And if it is in luxury industry like let's say uh gems and jewelry and like let's say uh gems and jewelry and all that it is absorbable. So that's not all that it is absorbable. So that's not a problem. But what is going to happen a problem. But what is going to happen consistently is that uh China is going consistently is that uh China is going to move ahead into an high-end area to move ahead into an high-end area which means China is going to give away which means China is going to give away the low end and middle medium end work the low end and middle medium end work uh because they have to move because uh because they have to move because their population they have now their their population they have now their population is almost and their population is almost and their population is halted almost halted now population is halted almost halted now their demographic dividend is going to their demographic dividend is going to go away because they have that one child go away because they have that one child policy with that the number of people policy with that the number of people going to remain same you you have to going to remain same you you have to increase your production that means you increase your production that means you have to get into a higherend work to be have to get into a higherend work to be done and they are already there. They're done and they are already there. They're doing that. When that is happening, doing that. When that is happening, there are certain low-end work areas are there are certain low-end work areas are going to be open and that's our going to be open and that's our opportunity. We should not look at it opportunity. We should not look at it like yo, China has got out of it. It is like yo, China has got out of it. It is something low-end. I think if it is something low-end. I think if it is giving us higher than what we are giving us higher than what we are currently doing it, why should we not do currently doing it, why should we not do it? So if footwear is an opportunity, we it? So if footwear is an opportunity, we should do it. If API is an opportunity, should do it. If API is an opportunity, we should do it. We should take we should do it. We should take everything that helps us increase our everything that helps us increase our per capita GDP from 7 7 and a half,000 per capita GDP from 7 7 and a half,000 whatever is to 10,000 12,000 15,000 just whatever is to 10,000 12,000 15,000 just take the opportunity and do it and there take the opportunity and do it and there is a world is a market see the biggest is a world is a market see the biggest advantage I see is that as a domestic advantage I see is that as a domestic country as a country with 1.4 4 billion country as a country with 1.4 4 billion people we have enough a huge domestic people we have enough a huge domestic market play do all your testing with the market play do all your testing with the domestic market build whatever scale you domestic market build whatever scale you want to build here and from there then want to build here and from there then you take it abroad out so I think you take it abroad out so I think whatever is happening on the tariff uh whatever is happening on the tariff uh tariffs are not going to be sustainable tariffs are not going to be sustainable for long I think nobody can because for long I think nobody can because ultimately it is the end user is going ultimately it is the end user is going to pay for it is nobody else it is the s to pay for it is nobody else it is the s the sufferer is the end user at any the sufferer is the end user at any point of time so tariffs whatever point of time so tariffs whatever however you use it you What happened uh however you use it you What happened uh in US also uh the Apple went to Trump in US also uh the Apple went to Trump and got the tariffs on the phone and got the tariffs on the phone reduced. Now phone they they could show reduced. Now phone they they could show phone is a necessity. It is very phone is a necessity. It is very important and all that. So every big important and all that. So every big company with their deep pockets will go company with their deep pockets will go to Trump and get those concessions and to Trump and get those concessions and we'll get and I think then it will be we'll get and I think then it will be only kind of uh uh uh uh exercise which only kind of uh uh uh uh exercise which is you are just showing that yes we are is you are just showing that yes we are having tariff and we have taken tough having tariff and we have taken tough stand but every big industry will kind stand but every big industry will kind of get exceptions get concessions and of get exceptions get concessions and they'll move so I don't think tariff are they'll move so I don't think tariff are going to be there for long yes they will going to be there for long yes they will increase they will try and figure out a increase they will try and figure out a way to that they are wanting to bring way to that they are wanting to bring China to a discussion table. I think China to a discussion table. I think it's a tactic. He's a classic game it's a tactic. He's a classic game theory player. He will ask for moon theory player. He will ask for moon because he wants something little more because he wants something little more than what it is today. So even if than what it is today. So even if everything goes if he has to retract on everything goes if he has to retract on all the tariffs and if he maintains that all the tariffs and if he maintains that okay fine tariff from tomorrow onwards okay fine tariff from tomorrow onwards is 10%. He has increased his income is 10%. He has increased his income government income by three times. government income by three times. Actually he hasn't because it doesn't Actually he hasn't because it doesn't mean you'll collect that much and it mean you'll collect that much and it becomes a tax on your own consumers. So becomes a tax on your own consumers. So which he doesn't understand of course. which he doesn't understand of course. Oh the what is that everybody is saying Oh the what is that everybody is saying that okay now you so they are also that okay now you so they are also trying to find out efficiency so so trying to find out efficiency so so anybody who is exporting to us they are anybody who is exporting to us they are reducing their margins so what I have reducing their margins so what I have seen in the industry happening is that seen in the industry happening is that there is a negotiation happening key there is a negotiation happening key okay now there is a 10% extra tariff I okay now there is a 10% extra tariff I will bear 5% you bear 5% so you bring will bear 5% you bear 5% so you bring out efficiencies in your manufacturing out efficiencies in your manufacturing and give me 5% discount I will figure and give me 5% discount I will figure out what to do maybe I will reduce my out what to do maybe I will reduce my margins in certain way but then I will margins in certain way but then I will keep consumer So what will be passed on keep consumer So what will be passed on to consumer will be 1 or 2%. That's all. to consumer will be 1 or 2%. That's all. So ultimately even if your tariff has So ultimately even if your tariff has gone up by 10%. The end consumer may gone up by 10%. The end consumer may have 1 or 2% because 4% is given by the have 1 or 2% because 4% is given by the supplier 4% is given by the distributor. supplier 4% is given by the distributor. So everybody is trying to figure out and So everybody is trying to figure out and maintain the numbers same. So that is maintain the numbers same. So that is what is happening in the background. what is happening in the background. Everybody's trying to figure out where Everybody's trying to figure out where is the fat in the system? Can I cut is the fat in the system? Can I cut little fat and can I still survive? So little fat and can I still survive? So everybody's trying to figure that out everybody's trying to figure that out and everybody's then saying that okay and everybody's then saying that okay fine we are doing this. Can we now grow fine we are doing this. Can we now grow the market? Can we so are you so if you the market? Can we so are you so if you are taking certain things away from are taking certain things away from China if I'm giving volume to you with China if I'm giving volume to you with that volume I can offset so my that volume I can offset so my profitability will go down but my net profitability will go down but my net profit will go up because I'm doing more profit will go up because I'm doing more volumes currently so that is how I think volumes currently so that is how I think the game is being played currently in the game is being played currently in the market bizarrely everything's sort the market bizarrely everything's sort of status no supply demand yeah I mean I of status no supply demand yeah I mean I I mean for listeners there are two I mean for listeners there are two episodes of everything is everything app episodes of everything is everything app 95 and 96 which are about exactly this 95 and 96 which are about exactly this app 95 deals with the 101s of app 95 deals with the 101s of globalization, why globalization is globalization, why globalization is great, tariffs are terrible, note the great, tariffs are terrible, note the alliterating and also gives a potted alliterating and also gives a potted history of globalization and uh episode history of globalization and uh episode 96 goes much more into the nuances of 96 goes much more into the nuances of the current situation. You will find AJ the current situation. You will find AJ and I in a furious argument with each and I in a furious argument with each other for those of you who like that other for those of you who like that kind of thing. But I would like to kind of thing. But I would like to inform you that we are still friends. inform you that we are still friends. And let's move on now to the human And let's move on now to the human aspect like geopolitical and I think a aspect like geopolitical and I think a lot of what happens in the future and in lot of what happens in the future and in world politics is unknown unknown is too world politics is unknown unknown is too complex for us and as narin wisely said but but tell me uh sudh now and said but but tell me uh sudh now and this is something both of you know about this is something both of you know about but sudh I know you must have um but sudh I know you must have um tremendous insight into because you are tremendous insight into because you are all the time hanging out with all the time hanging out with entrepreneurs ers and theme owners entrepreneurs ers and theme owners especially I want to understand what are especially I want to understand what are the personal and professional challenges the personal and professional challenges one by one that uhme owners face that one by one that uhme owners face that people running micro businesses small people running micro businesses small businesses medium businesses face businesses medium businesses face because uh very often it's extremely because uh very often it's extremely lonely at the top right if you are lonely at the top right if you are running a small or a uh medium uh running a small or a uh medium uh enterprise today uh you know it's you enterprise today uh you know it's you can be lonely at the top it's difficult can be lonely at the top it's difficult for you to uh Find a group of peers who for you to uh Find a group of peers who face similar challenges. Uh you know if face similar challenges. Uh you know if you're running a big company and you're you're running a big company and you're from Harvard, you'll have a network of from Harvard, you'll have a network of peers and etc etc and all that really peers and etc etc and all that really helps. But if you are in Nashik or helps. But if you are in Nashik or Ranchi or Satara or Shapur and you're Ranchi or Satara or Shapur and you're running a business and the world is running a business and the world is rapidly changing and globalization is rapidly changing and globalization is upon you and at both a personal and a upon you and at both a personal and a professional level there are a different professional level there are a different set of challenges that you you're set of challenges that you you're struggling to keep up with. So give me struggling to keep up with. So give me your insights on what that is because it your insights on what that is because it is that humans story that fascinates me is that humans story that fascinates me that we can talk about whatmemes need to that we can talk about whatmemes need to do but they being run by human beings do but they being run by human beings who have um you know who've come out of who have um you know who've come out of a certain environment a certain a certain environment a certain ecosystem or certain society what take ecosystem or certain society what take me into their uh heads and tell me their me into their uh heads and tell me their stories. So my personal take is so I've stories. So my personal take is so I've been an entrepreneur and uh I know all been an entrepreneur and uh I know all the entrepreneurs I know live this life the entrepreneurs I know live this life 24/7. So all of I pick up all calls. 24/7. So all of I pick up all calls. There are no unknown numbers that I There are no unknown numbers that I don't pick up because literally anyone don't pick up because literally anyone might be calling you if you are an MSME might be calling you if you are an MSME owner. So you are that connected. You owner. So you are that connected. You don't have anything like a work life don't have anything like a work life balance. You have customers calling you balance. You have customers calling you in the middle of the night saying that in the middle of the night saying that they made a mistake in their production they made a mistake in their production schedule but they need your material schedule but they need your material tomorrow morning. What can you do? You tomorrow morning. What can you do? You pick up the material, put it in your pick up the material, put it in your car, you drive there and you deliver it. car, you drive there and you deliver it. I have done those I have done those things. But you don't think anything things. But you don't think anything about it. So it's just and it doesn't about it. So it's just and it doesn't happen every day. It's just once in a happen every day. It's just once in a moment. It's just that you are there for moment. It's just that you are there for it. The second point which Sudhir uh it. The second point which Sudhir uh made in another podcast of which I made in another podcast of which I watched is that there is a lot about watched is that there is a lot about 99% or even more is just 99% or even more is just boring plauding painstaking drudgery but boring plauding painstaking drudgery but it doesn't feel like that to them. So it doesn't feel like that to them. So making an invoice today so we supply to making an invoice today so we supply to the automotive sector we have to make an the automotive sector we have to make an invoice. So we if I'm making a shipment invoice. So we if I'm making a shipment of 1,000 parts and I need to make 100 of 1,000 parts and I need to make 100 invoices for 10 parts each because that invoices for 10 parts each because that is the lot they push onto the assembly is the lot they push onto the assembly line 10 at a part. So it's not 10 line 10 at a part. So it's not 10 actually now it's 100. So I make 10 actually now it's 100. So I make 10 invoices of 100 parts each. So it goes invoices of 100 parts each. So it goes in batches of 100. It makes their in batches of 100. It makes their management. It's same the bedwin and the management. It's same the bedwin and the brick story. They don't care how much brick story. They don't care how much inconvenience it means. So we end up inconvenience it means. So we end up having to make the invoicing department having to make the invoicing department in every manufacturing company is the in every manufacturing company is the most overworked. So they have to make most overworked. So they have to make invoice. They have to make an eBay bill. invoice. They have to make an eBay bill. They have to make all kinds of They have to make all kinds of documentation. Usually most of our documentation. Usually most of our invoices go with a with copies of the invoices go with a with copies of the test report things of that. All that test report things of that. All that entire sheet bunch of part it take hours entire sheet bunch of part it take hours to do. But no, you'll never find anyone to do. But no, you'll never find anyone complaining about it. Uh which is very complaining about it. Uh which is very curious. This work life balance thing I curious. This work life balance thing I find is a very first world kind of a find is a very first world kind of a concern and it's a problem if you say concern and it's a problem if you say it's a problem till that time it's like it's a problem till that time it's like the fish you know they don't know that the fish you know they don't know that there is water only when someone tells there is water only when someone tells them there is water oh there is such a them there is water oh there is such a thing as what is that that's what and thing as what is that that's what and there is one line from a puladesh pande there is one line from a puladesh pande sort of story that uh remind me so this sort of story that uh remind me so this is a story called anu barva and anu is a story called anu barva and anu barwa is a man who lives in the kongi barwa is a man who lives in the kongi ratnagiri and this guy goes to ratna And ratnagiri and this guy goes to ratna And he says it's too hot. So Anu says in his style. So someone who sleeps in a cow style. So someone who sleeps in a cow shed, how can he complain that it's shed, how can he complain that it's smelling of the bull's urine? smelling of the bull's urine? It's all pervasive. It's there. It's It's all pervasive. It's there. It's part of just deal with it. Move on. So part of just deal with it. Move on. So that's my way. But yes, a lot of the lot that's my way. But yes, a lot of the lot of people would say that's very unfair. of people would say that's very unfair. It's inhuman, dehumanizing people. It's It's inhuman, dehumanizing people. It's okay for me. I'm an owner and if it okay for me. I'm an owner and if it makes a profit, I'm going to make a lot makes a profit, I'm going to make a lot of money. But what about my manager? of money. But what about my manager? What about my supervisor who's working What about my supervisor who's working 60 hours maybe or 45 hours a week? What 60 hours maybe or 45 hours a week? What about him? What about your invoicing about him? What about your invoicing department? Because let me tell you department? Because let me tell you something, I hate making something, I hate making invoices. Like this show has one regular invoices. Like this show has one regular advertiser which is CTQ compounds. My advertiser which is CTQ compounds. My good buddies and fellow quizzers good buddies and fellow quizzers Ramanand and Harish Randat and every Ramanand and Harish Randat and every month Harish has to remind me 40 times month Harish has to remind me 40 times key send the invoice like they make the key send the invoice like they make the payment before I send the invoice. And payment before I send the invoice. And last month because I was traveling, last month because I was traveling, Harish said, "Fuck you." And he made the Harish said, "Fuck you." And he made the invoice for me and sent it to me. Which invoice for me and sent it to me. Which is kind of embarrassing because you know is kind of embarrassing because you know this is like just going the other way. So you know sometimes Narendra is way. So you know sometimes Narendra is Shanoi have some empathy speak to your Shanoi have some empathy speak to your invoice department give them a bonus uh invoice department give them a bonus uh give them chai give them some two give them chai give them some two wonderful young boys who do this give wonderful young boys who do this give them some mystical poke them some mystical poke I think Indianme entrepreneurs are I think Indianme entrepreneurs are typically every India is a huge family typically every India is a huge family oriented country we believe into family oriented country we believe into family everything is family we run our everything is family we run our companies like a family uh if you see uh companies like a family uh if you see uh the owners of the company addressing the owners of the company addressing their employees they will always talk their employees they will always talk about we all are one family and all that about we all are one family and all that though a lot of things are not right but though a lot of things are not right but then they will always give family then they will always give family example and that's why I like uh the example and that's why I like uh the middle model because middle also uh middle model because middle also uh talks about uh familial way they don't talks about uh familial way they don't talk about shareholder returns they talk talk about shareholder returns they talk about stakeholder return and in about stakeholder return and in stakeholder return you're talking about stakeholder return you're talking about your suppliers you're talking about your your suppliers you're talking about your employees you're talking about your bank employees you're talking about your bank you're talking about even the owners so you're talking about even the owners so all that so that difference between all that so that difference between shareholder and stakeholder is very shareholder and stakeholder is very interesting and that's what happens in interesting and that's what happens in India also So India is deeply family. So India also So India is deeply family. So your familial activity is your your familial activity is your distressing things. So you will find distressing things. So you will find these entrepreneurs uh having satar and these entrepreneurs uh having satar and puja. My experience has been most of puja. My experience has been most of Maharashtra allmemes and they will have Maharashtra allmemes and they will have puja and I think it is true everywhere puja and I think it is true everywhere across India. We have puja we have all across India. We have puja we have all the festivals. So kite festivals all the the festivals. So kite festivals all the female in the organization they will female in the organization they will have those nine colors course during the have those nine colors course during the nawatri and diwali is celebrated. So all nawatri and diwali is celebrated. So all all these activities which are religious all these activities which are religious in nature which are cultural in nature in nature which are cultural in nature they bring lot of they get lot of stress they bring lot of they get lot of stress away otherwise entrepreneur generally is away otherwise entrepreneur generally is very very lonely. Uh there are informal very very lonely. Uh there are informal networks in every city. So you will have networks in every city. So you will have Rotary, you will have Lions Club, you Rotary, you will have Lions Club, you will have the industries, they will have will have the industries, they will have their own associations, they will have their own associations, they will have groups around a particular activity, groups around a particular activity, they will have save the city kind of uh they will have save the city kind of uh movement. So what happens is that we all movement. So what happens is that we all in Bombay and cities like Delhi and in Bombay and cities like Delhi and Bombay, Delhi mostly and now Punea is Bombay, Delhi mostly and now Punea is reaching there, Bangalore is bad. Uh we reaching there, Bangalore is bad. Uh we complain a lot about traffic because we complain a lot about traffic because we take one and a half hour to reach to take one and a half hour to reach to factory and back. But in the tier 2, factory and back. But in the tier 2, tier three city the travel is 15 tier three city the travel is 15 minutes. So you have a lot of time minutes. So you have a lot of time available. Few people if their factories available. Few people if their factories are not too far go home for lunch. So are not too far go home for lunch. So that entire familial um way of living that entire familial um way of living brings lot of work life balance for brings lot of work life balance for them. So they are connected to their them. So they are connected to their family, they are connected to their family, they are connected to their community and that brings lot of a uh community and that brings lot of a uh comfort for them. When you come to comfort for them. When you come to mental wellness, yes, life is very mental wellness, yes, life is very tough. uh uh entrepreneurs day starts at tough. uh uh entrepreneurs day starts at early as you said very rightly that key early as you said very rightly that key if there is no raw material for your if there is no raw material for your line to feed you would go in the morning line to feed you would go in the morning at 7:00 your clock calls will start at at 7:00 your clock calls will start at 7:00 uh and you will finish that you 7:00 uh and you will finish that you will go and supervise the line you will will go and supervise the line you will check what is happening on your sales check what is happening on your sales team whether the new orders have come team whether the new orders have come for then you will go to your accounts for then you will go to your accounts and check whether your collections have and check whether your collections have happened or not and then in the evening happened or not and then in the evening if there is there is some invoicing left if there is there is some invoicing left out there are some complaints so you out there are some complaints so you will solve all that during the day so an will solve all that during the day so an entrepreneur is always consistently busy entrepreneur is always consistently busy but uh there is no fatic per se because but uh there is no fatic per se because as you said very rightly that that's the as you said very rightly that that's the way it is a fish doesn't understand the way it is a fish doesn't understand the existence of water around that the same existence of water around that the same way an entrepreneur doesn't understand way an entrepreneur doesn't understand that there is a kind of a pressure there that there is a kind of a pressure there is a kind of loneliness that is there is a kind of loneliness that is there but lot of uh uh uh such groups and but lot of uh uh uh such groups and formal and informal groups are coming up formal and informal groups are coming up so my co-founder Bhagasar he has this so my co-founder Bhagasar he has this teaching and learning community they teaching and learning community they have almost around 1,400 100 have almost around 1,400 100 entrepreneurs across Maharashtra from entrepreneurs across Maharashtra from cities. So it started in Nasi and now cities. So it started in Nasi and now they have members in Pune, Sangli, they have members in Pune, Sangli, Satara, Kulapur, Orurangabad, Ahmedagar. Satara, Kulapur, Orurangabad, Ahmedagar. And these people uh they work together, And these people uh they work together, they learn together, they build their they learn together, they build their entire uh the entire structures of how entire uh the entire structures of how to run company is uh disseminated by to run company is uh disseminated by TLC. uh there are almost around 60 70 TLC. uh there are almost around 60 70 people at the senior level who learn people at the senior level who learn directly from Bhagasur and then those directly from Bhagasur and then those people teach their next level of 200 people teach their next level of 200 people and then those people teach people and then those people teach another thousand people down the line. another thousand people down the line. So there is a nice informal they meet So there is a nice informal they meet once a month they have their own once a month they have their own programs where they check implementation programs where they check implementation they have their own uh things happening they have their own uh things happening in terms of uh whether implementation is in terms of uh whether implementation is done or not. So audits happen then the done or not. So audits happen then the awards are given industry speakers are awards are given industry speakers are brought in. So such groups are there uh brought in. So such groups are there uh EU which is another group entrepreneur EU which is another group entrepreneur but I think EU is basically super super but I think EU is basically super super high. It is not MSME thing anymore high. It is not MSME thing anymore because I think they charge something because I think they charge something like uh 50 lakh rupees and annual like uh 50 lakh rupees and annual joining fee and all that insane. Uh I am joining fee and all that insane. Uh I am part of uh another network called part of uh another network called Ascent. Ascent is basically started by Ascent. Ascent is basically started by Harsh Mariala uh which is an again a Harsh Mariala uh which is an again a collective of entrepreneurs almost collective of entrepreneurs almost thousand entrepreneurs are uh part of it thousand entrepreneurs are uh part of it and we are a bunch of 10 entrepreneurs and we are a bunch of 10 entrepreneurs together uh everybody's business is so together uh everybody's business is so different that we don't compete with different that we don't compete with each other everybody's so there is a each other everybody's so there is a non-compete uh you meet every month once non-compete uh you meet every month once a month and you meet and uh share your a month and you meet and uh share your experiences check in you do what you did experiences check in you do what you did in the last month what are the in the last month what are the challenges and you speak about those challenges and you speak about those challenges and everybody challenges and everybody basically says so nobody gives guan to basically says so nobody gives guan to each other no gan but experiential each other no gan but experiential sharing where you tell how you solve a sharing where you tell how you solve a similar problem in your industry or in similar problem in your industry or in your company and stuff like that so your company and stuff like that so there are diversifications that you do there are diversifications that you do there are certain calls that you have to there are certain calls that you have to take on finances and all those calls you take on finances and all those calls you can talk about and others will give can talk about and others will give their perspective so these uh informal their perspective so these uh informal networks that are now coming in uh being networks that are now coming in uh being made available they help a lot an made available they help a lot an entrepreor reneurs because now there is entrepreor reneurs because now there is a collective uh kind of being together a collective uh kind of being together collective problem solving that is there collective problem solving that is there and I think uh whatever we say we talk and I think uh whatever we say we talk uh we will make fun of WhatsApp uncle uh we will make fun of WhatsApp uncle WhatsApp also is you in some engineering WhatsApp also is you in some engineering nice way that there are uh networks nice way that there are uh networks there are communities which are part of there are communities which are part of that and those communities share with that and those communities share with each other uh stuff online on WhatsApp each other uh stuff online on WhatsApp and those communities also are thriving and those communities also are thriving so there there interesting uh uh models so there there interesting uh uh models that are emerging up uh from there. Um that are emerging up uh from there. Um in terms of uh I I feel um my own in terms of uh I I feel um my own personal experience of last uh 12 years personal experience of last uh 12 years with ascent I'm bunch of nine people with ascent I'm bunch of nine people more with me and I've been kind of more with me and I've been kind of talking about uh all the stuff right talking about uh all the stuff right from uh movement from one business my from uh movement from one business my selling off my basically getting a exit selling off my basically getting a exit from my earlier business getting into from my earlier business getting into something new moving from there starting something new moving from there starting how frameworks at all journey I have how frameworks at all journey I have been bouncing off the ideas I've been been bouncing off the ideas I've been talking and as if they are my board talking and as if they are my board members they talk to me, they help me members they talk to me, they help me out and uh those are those informal out and uh those are those informal networks really really help a lot. uh so networks really really help a lot. uh so even if you so in small companies you even if you so in small companies you don't have the board of directors that's don't have the board of directors that's one of the thing uh that is very common one of the thing uh that is very common across the board the the theme is across the board the the theme is generally husband wife and maybe brother generally husband wife and maybe brother who would be part of your board of who would be part of your board of directors but that is only for the names directors but that is only for the names sake uh your real uh bouncing of ideas sake uh your real uh bouncing of ideas your real sharing happens in the your real sharing happens in the informal networks like this so coming informal networks like this so coming back uh to the stress level coming back back uh to the stress level coming back uh to the work life balance I think uh uh to the work life balance I think uh we have we are pretty resilient I'm not we have we are pretty resilient I'm not seeing people really uh kind of the way seeing people really uh kind of the way we see uh uh the pressure taken by we see uh uh the pressure taken by students to succeed and then we see students to succeed and then we see those suicides happening in Kota and all those suicides happening in Kota and all that you don't see entrepreneurs kind of that you don't see entrepreneurs kind of getting to that zone of uh self harm getting to that zone of uh self harm ever you you you very there must be ever you you you very there must be cases but very rare cases otherwise they cases but very rare cases otherwise they figure out a way because I think an figure out a way because I think an entrepreneur when he gets into a entrepreneur when he gets into a business then they are basically problem business then they are basically problem solver. So they try to figure out some solver. So they try to figure out some problem we'll solve it and solve it by problem we'll solve it and solve it by any means whatever you want. So so you any means whatever you want. So so you will s dam whatever is there you will will s dam whatever is there you will figure out a way and you will solve it. figure out a way and you will solve it. So you will consistently I think you are So you will consistently I think you are that nolisha story was very interesting. that nolisha story was very interesting. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, that's uh actually uh so I told uh Oh, that's uh actually uh so I told uh Sudhir about this uh friend of mine. Sudhir about this uh friend of mine. There no real context to anything but There no real context to anything but way much very long back I had another way much very long back I had another friend and uh we went to meet this guy. friend and uh we went to meet this guy. Uh he had in our old industrial area he Uh he had in our old industrial area he had a little unit manufacturing nail had a little unit manufacturing nail polishes and uh you know those little polishes and uh you know those little bottles with plastic cap and everything bottles with plastic cap and everything nail polish. So he uh also gave a few nail polish. So he uh also gave a few nail polish bottles for Sheila and they nail polish bottles for Sheila and they weren't really good because they're not weren't really good because they're not they were pretty low end but he seemed they were pretty low end but he seemed to be doing very well. He had like his to be doing very well. He had like his factory full of nail polish bottles and factory full of nail polish bottles and a lot of people working and everything. a lot of people working and everything. So I just uh you know we used to meet So I just uh you know we used to meet him we met him a few times and uh I told him we met him a few times and uh I told him I commended him on how well he him I commended him on how well he seemed to be running his company and you seemed to be running his company and you know who would have thought kind of know who would have thought kind of thing. thing. thing. So he told me that he almost didn't he So he told me that he almost didn't he you know he almost gave up. So what you know he almost gave up. So what happened his story was as follows. happened his story was as follows. He was a Gujarati guy who was part of a He was a Gujarati guy who was part of a joint family headed by some uncle and it joint family headed by some uncle and it was some grain kirana some some kind of was some grain kirana some some kind of a business like that and all these he a business like that and all these he and several other of his cousins all and several other of his cousins all nephews of that uncle were working and nephews of that uncle were working and the uncle was basically exploiting them the uncle was basically exploiting them like anything he didn't intend one day like anything he didn't intend one day they all realized that the uncle's grand they all realized that the uncle's grand plan was to not give them any money so plan was to not give them any money so all of them decide to leave and mas and all of them decide to leave and mas and all the other cousins they had managed all the other cousins they had managed to sort of uh scrge up enough money to to sort of uh scrge up enough money to start off similar lines of business start off similar lines of business which they knew well. So they started which they knew well. So they started their whatever wholesale retail whatever their whatever wholesale retail whatever kirana supply there. This guy kirana supply there. This guy unfortunately had didn't have enough unfortunately had didn't have enough money to do that. His wife said don't money to do that. His wife said don't worry here's my jewelry sell it off. He worry here's my jewelry sell it off. He cobbled whatever he could and he had a cobbled whatever he could and he had a friend who said I know how to make nail friend who said I know how to make nail polish. So they got together and decided polish. So they got together and decided to start his nail polish factory. The to start his nail polish factory. The nail polish factory. So they got all the nail polish factory. So they got all the material, they got the equipment, they material, they got the equipment, they got everything and the friend was got everything and the friend was supposed to be the guy who knew how to supposed to be the guy who knew how to make it. So he got the solvent and the make it. So he got the solvent and the pigment and everything and he made the pigment and everything and he made the nail polish to put it into bottles and nail polish to put it into bottles and he this guy even had a customer. So they he this guy even had a customer. So they shipped it out to the customer. shipped it out to the customer. Everything was fine. But about a week Everything was fine. But about a week later that entire lot comes back to his later that entire lot comes back to his factory because what has happened is all factory because what has happened is all the pigment has settled down and the the pigment has settled down and the solvent is up. That doesn't work. It's solvent is up. That doesn't work. It's can't work. So that nail nail polish can't work. So that nail nail polish basically bombed. And then the friend basically bombed. And then the friend who was supposed to be the process uh who was supposed to be the process uh guy, he realized that he had goofed up. guy, he realized that he had goofed up. He didn't know whatever. He decided to He didn't know whatever. He decided to bail out. He says, "I don't know what is bail out. He says, "I don't know what is this. I don't have any more money. I this. I don't have any more money. I don't want to do anything." He just left don't want to do anything." He just left and went. So this guy has his entire and went. So this guy has his entire life savings in these all these bottles life savings in these all these bottles and no prospect of selling it. He and no prospect of selling it. He doesn't know what to do. So he goes doesn't know what to do. So he goes around, he goes to bank, he tells them around, he goes to bank, he tells them he needs money. No one is willing to he needs money. No one is willing to lend him a penny because he doesn't have lend him a penny because he doesn't have a credit history and nothing to a credit history and nothing to mortgage, nothing left to pledge. And so mortgage, nothing left to pledge. And so he's just this is in Vasai. So he's just he's just this is in Vasai. So he's just going around and he meets a friend of going around and he meets a friend of his at the railway station. So not his at the railway station. So not friend friend but someone who was in friend friend but someone who was in school with school with school with him and that person says you look very him and that person says you look very worried and stressed what's the matter worried and stressed what's the matter with you? So he just blurts out with you? So he just blurts out everything. He says this is what everything. He says this is what happened. So that fellow says see I have happened. So that fellow says see I have two lak rupees here. Take this two lak two lak rupees here. Take this two lak rupees put it into your business. Give rupees put it into your business. Give it another shot. it another shot. Find someone better. Find someone who Find someone better. Find someone who can tell you the right formulation. Do can tell you the right formulation. Do whatever because you have all these whatever because you have all these bottles. You have all this pigment. You bottles. You have all this pigment. You have the customer have the customer everything. And if you make enough everything. And if you make enough money, give me return it to me. And if money, give me return it to me. And if not, let it go because I it's just spare not, let it go because I it's just spare money for me. I don't need money for me. I don't need it. And he turned it around. it. And he turned it around. He turned it around and he says that was He turned it around and he says that was the most incredible stroke of luck I've the most incredible stroke of luck I've ever had. I just it just turned around. ever had. I just it just turned around. I got the right person. I got the right I got the right person. I got the right chemicals. I I reformulated that damn chemicals. I I reformulated that damn thing and it sold. And after that I I thing and it sold. And after that I I was just grown grown grown grown grown was just grown grown grown grown grown the business. Then you gave the money the business. Then you gave the money back to this guy. He gave the money back back to this guy. He gave the money back to her. This is random acts of kindness. to her. This is random acts of kindness. I thought it was such so it's really I thought it was such so it's really nothing to do with MSMES or anything. nothing to do with MSMES or anything. It's just random kindness of people, It's just random kindness of people, humanity, society. I mean, yeah. All of humanity, society. I mean, yeah. All of it. Yeah. And that guy actually took it. Yeah. And that guy actually took that opportunity and made the that's the that opportunity and made the that's the entrepreneurship. That's the entrepreneurship. That's the entrepreneurship. No. And basically Yes. entrepreneurship. No. And basically Yes. That's why I was we were coming from the That's why I was we were coming from the point of that how entrepreneurs never point of that how entrepreneurs never suicide or get into self harm. They suicide or get into self harm. They never give up. They will figure out a never give up. They will figure out a way to do something. They will do some way to do something. They will do some that's why they're an entrepreneur. that's why they're an entrepreneur. Otherwise, whatever. Absolutely. Otherwise, whatever. Absolutely. Absolutely. Brilliant. And I I I think Absolutely. Brilliant. And I I I think we should actually be proud of all our we should actually be proud of all our entrepreneurial traditions and the fact entrepreneurial traditions and the fact that in so many different ways uh we we that in so many different ways uh we we have this and uh I want to now turn the have this and uh I want to now turn the attention from all the entrepreneurs in attention from all the entrepreneurs in general out there to our favorite general out there to our favorite entrepreneur Narendra Shoy. Our favorite entrepreneur Narendra Shoy. Our favorite entrepreneur is this man. Yes. entrepreneur is this man. Yes. what uh that nameless friend did to our what uh that nameless friend did to our nail polish nail polish nail polish entrepreneur namely give something in a entrepreneur namely give something in a random act of kindness to help that random act of kindness to help that person turn his life around and at scale person turn his life around and at scale and it's not money it's knowledge but at and it's not money it's knowledge but at scale so tell me about the journey scale so tell me about the journey towards how frame works like how how did towards how frame works like how how did you arrive at this what is your personal you arrive at this what is your personal journey here yeah so uh so before that I journey here yeah so uh so before that I must for listeners give a little must for listeners give a little background because I'm also a member of background because I'm also a member of uh Sudhir's uh group uh called how uh Sudhir's uh group uh called how frameworks. So what in short what it frameworks. So what in short what it does is it introduces framework thinking does is it introduces framework thinking for business situations and though I am for business situations and though I am a card carrying MBA I am almost a card carrying MBA I am almost embarrassed I actually never admit to embarrassed I actually never admit to anyone except under duress like when anyone except under duress like when they got me under lights and they're they got me under lights and they're pulling my fingernails off that's when I pulling my fingernails off that's when I admit that I'm an MB otherwise I never admit that I'm an MB otherwise I never do because I suck at business. I'm just do because I suck at business. I'm just terrible. Why am I terrible? because I terrible. Why am I terrible? because I get easily confused, right? So, you get easily confused, right? So, you don't know which knob to twiddle. It's don't know which knob to twiddle. It's it's an equalizer and you got your bars it's an equalizer and you got your bars and tribble and medium and every twiddle and tribble and medium and every twiddle makes your uh makes your uh sound your your sound system sound bad sound your your sound system sound bad in some different way. It doesn't solve in some different way. It doesn't solve the problem. You want create music out the problem. You want create music out of it. It doesn't happen. And then so of it. It doesn't happen. And then so bringing that an analogy back to the bringing that an analogy back to the business environment. So, you have business environment. So, you have receivables. Do you manage receivables? receivables. Do you manage receivables? Do you manage your machinery? Do you Do you manage your machinery? Do you invest more money in your business? Do invest more money in your business? Do you hire better people? Do you fire you hire better people? Do you fire people? Do you what the hell do you do? people? Do you what the hell do you do? And everything you do, you decide, oh, I And everything you do, you decide, oh, I got too many people. I fire people and got too many people. I fire people and your production productivity goes down. your production productivity goes down. So, you have to hire the people back and So, you have to hire the people back and you realize that your machinery is old. you realize that your machinery is old. You get new machinery and that now you You get new machinery and that now you have the new machinery, the st that's have the new machinery, the st that's not working and now you have a big fat not working and now you have a big fat loan to pay off things like that. So, loan to pay off things like that. So, Sudhir had and Mr. Bagway they have put Sudhir had and Mr. Bagway they have put up uh literally every possible situation up uh literally every possible situation that an MSME might uh encounter in very that an MSME might uh encounter in very neat frameworks which really cut through neat frameworks which really cut through the clutter. It crystallizes your the clutter. It crystallizes your focuses your uh thinking and focuses your uh thinking and crystallizes and I for one find it crystallizes and I for one find it extremely helpful in viewing aspects of extremely helpful in viewing aspects of my business which used to confound me. my business which used to confound me. So with that I'll just pass. Thank you. So with that I'll just pass. Thank you. This is this is a brilliant introduction This is this is a brilliant introduction but I I must protest that you said you but I I must protest that you said you suck at business like no because you are suck at business like no because you are a successful businessman for like what a successful businessman for like what 30 years 40 years 50 years. I hope I'm 30 years 40 years 50 years. I hope I'm not giving your age away but you know not giving your age away but you know you so I strongly protest that uh that you so I strongly protest that uh that the actual practice of what you do has the actual practice of what you do has shown that you rock at business. But I shown that you rock at business. But I totally get what you're saying that totally get what you're saying that often the world is deeply complicated often the world is deeply complicated and one of the things I benefited from and one of the things I benefited from and it took me years and years and years and it took me years and years and years is you gather frameworks from different is you gather frameworks from different fields from economics from philosophy fields from economics from philosophy you gather frameworks from different you gather frameworks from different fields and you use it to kind of cut fields and you use it to kind of cut through the clutter and then some of the through the clutter and then some of the confusion clears some of the fog clears confusion clears some of the fog clears like there's this beautiful analogy like there's this beautiful analogy first used I think Milan Kundara came up first used I think Milan Kundara came up with it with it in his early '90s book with it with it in his early '90s book Testaments betrayed where he sees that a Testaments betrayed where he sees that a man is in fog, right? He doesn't know man is in fog, right? He doesn't know the road forward. There is just fog all the road forward. There is just fog all around him. And then he starts making a around him. And then he starts making a road by essentially walking. And then road by essentially walking. And then that road happens. And then he reaches that road happens. And then he reaches the end somewhere and he turns around the end somewhere and he turns around and when you turn around and you look and when you turn around and you look back, you can see the man and you can back, you can see the man and you can see the road, but you cannot see the see the road, but you cannot see the fork. Wow. Right. And I am just thinking fork. Wow. Right. And I am just thinking that what clear thinking does, what that what clear thinking does, what frameworks do like what you're putting frameworks do like what you're putting together Sudhir is that you're helping together Sudhir is that you're helping people clear away the fog in the moment people clear away the fog in the moment that you don't blunder from day to day that you don't blunder from day to day or from week to week from month to month or from week to week from month to month but you help them stand there and see but you help them stand there and see clearly. So of course it's a for-profit clearly. So of course it's a for-profit business and I hope it does very well business and I hope it does very well but it is also in my view a public but it is also in my view a public service as I think every successful service as I think every successful business actually is if you think about business actually is if you think about it. So now uh you know tell us about the it. So now uh you know tell us about the journey that kind of brought you to journey that kind of brought you to thinking in the Yeah. So in uh 2016 thinking in the Yeah. So in uh 2016 uh to 18 I exited from my earlier uh to 18 I exited from my earlier insurance broking business and I was insurance broking business and I was thinking of starting something new and thinking of starting something new and at that point of time uh my a couple of at that point of time uh my a couple of friends from my school shadasham friends from my school shadasham 40-year-old friends they run couple of 40-year-old friends they run couple of companies in Nasi so they said why don't companies in Nasi so they said why don't you come on a board uh be a director and you come on a board uh be a director and then we uh grow these companies and then we uh grow these companies and that's how that was my first brush with that's how that was my first brush with manufacturing almost around uh 8 7 8 manufacturing almost around uh 8 7 8 years back And I've been uh I was uh I years back And I've been uh I was uh I told him that key I'm basically a person told him that key I'm basically a person who is an entrepreneur by nature. I can who is an entrepreneur by nature. I can come on a board. I can be there but I come on a board. I can be there but I will give at least 5 years for it. So will give at least 5 years for it. So that was my thought process and I've that was my thought process and I've been thinking about what to do next. But been thinking about what to do next. But I said okay this is an interesting I said okay this is an interesting opportunity to kind of uh go and opportunity to kind of uh go and understand the manufacturing industry. understand the manufacturing industry. Now these two companies so one was the Now these two companies so one was the pharma process equipment manufacturing pharma process equipment manufacturing and another was those those machines and another was those those machines that they had put into another uh that they had put into another uh company and they were doing food company and they were doing food processing from there. So these are the processing from there. So these are the two companies that were there in nasi. two companies that were there in nasi. Uh I was I started working with them and Uh I was I started working with them and I said that key if you are now currently I said that key if you are now currently at let's say 1x and if you want to go to at let's say 1x and if you want to go to 10x you need to have somebody who will 10x you need to have somebody who will help you on this journey. So change help you on this journey. So change management thought process management management thought process management needs to be there. and they said can we needs to be there. and they said can we look at some business consultants and look at some business consultants and then they said yeah we have somebody in then they said yeah we have somebody in Nasi who runs something called TLC uh Nasi who runs something called TLC uh and would you like to meet them and that and would you like to meet them and that was I think sometime in the month of was I think sometime in the month of June or July 2018 June or July 2018 uh I met uh Mr. Bagwe um I will call him uh I met uh Mr. Bagwe um I will call him B sir because everybody calls him B sir. B sir because everybody calls him B sir. Uh so he is an entrepreneur who uh is a Uh so he is an entrepreneur who uh is a mechanical engineer from Vizidity Bombay mechanical engineer from Vizidity Bombay in way back in in way back in 1982 83 uh they moved to Nasi and then 1982 83 uh they moved to Nasi and then they have been uh they started their they have been uh they started their industry which is called Reliable Auto industry which is called Reliable Auto Tech and he has been running that Tech and he has been running that company. They are 500 cr plus company. company. They are 500 cr plus company. they are no more an MSME they are beyond they are no more an MSME they are beyond that and uh when he was in Nasi he also that and uh when he was in Nasi he also has done his uh management from Harvard has done his uh management from Harvard so he had this understanding of so he had this understanding of engineering as well as management very engineering as well as management very well and as a uh he was by around 2003 4 well and as a uh he was by around 2003 4 he had already spent around 20 years in he had already spent around 20 years in the industry because they came in 1984 the industry because they came in 1984 so 84 94 94 2004 he was already a so 84 94 94 2004 he was already a veteran in the industry uh 20 years veteran in the industry uh 20 years spent So a lot of people used to come to spent So a lot of people used to come to him for advice and that's how he started him for advice and that's how he started teaching people about how do you do uh teaching people about how do you do uh how do you run business and it started how do you run business and it started informally uh for around 5 10 15 informally uh for around 5 10 15 entrepreneurs in Nasi and he started entrepreneurs in Nasi and he started something called as teaching and something called as teaching and learning community. It started in 2005 learning community. It started in 2005 just completed 20 years now, two decades just completed 20 years now, two decades now. And then he was talking about it on now. And then he was talking about it on some TV uh channel or some channel there some TV uh channel or some channel there was uh uh his uh uh interview and then was uh uh his uh uh interview and then other people uh some people from Kapur other people uh some people from Kapur saw it and then they came and said that saw it and then they came and said that key how can we be part of it and he said key how can we be part of it and he said no I am basically from Nasi then say no I am basically from Nasi then say okay fine you come to Punea we'll come okay fine you come to Punea we'll come from uh Kapur to Pune and then we will from uh Kapur to Pune and then we will uh do this and that's how this entire uh uh do this and that's how this entire uh movement uh called teaching learning movement uh called teaching learning community is spread across Maharashtra community is spread across Maharashtra it is basically in Nasi started from it is basically in Nasi started from Nasi it they have members in Nasi Pune Nasi it they have members in Nasi Pune Sangli Satara Kulapur Aangabad Ahmed Sangli Satara Kulapur Aangabad Ahmed Nagar these are almost 1 1400 of them so Nagar these are almost 1 1400 of them so I met Bhagwar in 2018 and whenever so he I met Bhagwar in 2018 and whenever so he is I I liked him because his clarity of is I I liked him because his clarity of thought is amazing and whenever I so we thought is amazing and whenever I so we used to have this weekly meetings as a used to have this weekly meetings as a part of that change management process part of that change management process and whenever I used to go to him with and whenever I used to go to him with any problem that we have in the any problem that we have in the manufacturing because For me manufacturing because For me manufacturing was new. I am an engineer manufacturing was new. I am an engineer but I was in projects earlier then I was but I was in projects earlier then I was into uh services industry. So my brush into uh services industry. So my brush with manufacturing I know things but I with manufacturing I know things but I was not really a practicing uh person. was not really a practicing uh person. So when I got my hands dirty there I So when I got my hands dirty there I started understanding the nuances and I started understanding the nuances and I used to go to him and ask for a uh used to go to him and ask for a uh solution and he would never give me a solution and he would never give me a solution. He would always tell me a solution. He would always tell me a framework. How do you solve this problem framework. How do you solve this problem through a framework? And anything you go through a framework? And anything you go to him at any point of time, he will to him at any point of time, he will never give straight one answer key. This never give straight one answer key. This is no no you need to do these five is no no you need to do these five things so that you can solve this things so that you can solve this problem in totality. And he had problem in totality. And he had frameworks for anything that you take frameworks for anything that you take him, he will have a framework for that. him, he will have a framework for that. And then I used to observe that and that And then I used to observe that and that is almost around 3 four years. I mean is almost around 3 four years. I mean pandemic came in between uh uh we were pandemic came in between uh uh we were like kind of uh operating remotely for like kind of uh operating remotely for almost a year year and a half. Once the almost a year year and a half. Once the pandemic everything got over we again pandemic everything got over we again got back into action. And I used to got back into action. And I used to always think about this that key this is always think about this that key this is a very interesting way of solving a very interesting way of solving problems because whatever complex problems because whatever complex problem that is at you in front of you problem that is at you in front of you you break it into small small pieces and you break it into small small pieces and then you solve those pieces in a then you solve those pieces in a structured manner that the overall structured manner that the overall problem gets solved in a very nice way. problem gets solved in a very nice way. And uh I I was very uh kind of uh stuck And uh I I was very uh kind of uh stuck by that and uh very impressed about that by that and uh very impressed about that whole methodology. Um and that's how whole methodology. Um and that's how when my almost 5 years with this when my almost 5 years with this companies got over I was itching to do companies got over I was itching to do something new and at the same time I something new and at the same time I wanted something with a larger purpose wanted something with a larger purpose because I thought that whatever I will because I thought that whatever I will do now I will do it for next 20 years. do now I will do it for next 20 years. So I was uh around 53 54. I said okay So I was uh around 53 54. I said okay fine. Now if you have to work until 75 fine. Now if you have to work until 75 minimum if that is the retiring age what minimum if that is the retiring age what do you do which will be longlasting do you do which will be longlasting which will uh have a element of societal which will uh have a element of societal service which will help uh uh the service which will help uh uh the overall thing and at the same time it is overall thing and at the same time it is I I believe in as you say very rightly I I believe in as you say very rightly that double thank you moment is what I that double thank you moment is what I love. So I think people give uh time for love. So I think people give uh time for a lot of things. People give attention a lot of things. People give attention for a lot of things. But when it is for a lot of things. But when it is coming to giving money, people don't coming to giving money, people don't give. So if you create a service for give. So if you create a service for which they have to pay and if they pay which they have to pay and if they pay then only there is really a good service then only there is really a good service otherwise people are not really paying otherwise people are not really paying for it. So so I thought that key let's for it. So so I thought that key let's build something like this. So way back build something like this. So way back in 2023 March I went to Bhagasar and I in 2023 March I went to Bhagasar and I told him that this is what I have in my told him that this is what I have in my mind. Uh can we work on something like mind. Uh can we work on something like this? and uh he was not very sure uh this? and uh he was not very sure uh because this is something which was very because this is something which was very different way. So what I had proposed to different way. So what I had proposed to him was that whatever you teach at TLC. him was that whatever you teach at TLC. Now this TLC is like a lab because like Now this TLC is like a lab because like 20 years they have been doing stuff and 20 years they have been doing stuff and actually implementing it finding out actually implementing it finding out what goes wrong again correcting it. So what goes wrong again correcting it. So everything is basically it's like a 20 everything is basically it's like a 20 year old trial like a drug trial done year old trial like a drug trial done and the drug is ready to come out. So I and the drug is ready to come out. So I said to go to masses. I said we can uh said to go to masses. I said we can uh you are doing this and you will have a you are doing this and you will have a limitation because you are doing it in limitation because you are doing it in the physical world. So you you your the physical world. So you you your growth will have a limitation. Why are growth will have a limitation. Why are you not allowing the entire India and you not allowing the entire India and maybe the entire world the all the maybe the entire world the all the entrepreneurs who are struggling? Why entrepreneurs who are struggling? Why can't they take advantage of this wisdom can't they take advantage of this wisdom of yours? What you have learned over a of yours? What you have learned over a period of time working with these more period of time working with these more than thousand entrepreneurs and why than thousand entrepreneurs and why can't we convert it into a digital can't we convert it into a digital manner? uh he was having a dilemma manner? uh he was having a dilemma because he had uh his entire thought because he had uh his entire thought process was that I will work with a non process was that I will work with a non not for-p profofit uh kind of a concept. not for-p profofit uh kind of a concept. So TLC is a not for-p profofit. Now TLC So TLC is a not for-p profofit. Now TLC until recently did not have a bank until recently did not have a bank account. There was no entity nothing. It account. There was no entity nothing. It is a completely groundsup movement. It is a completely groundsup movement. It is more moves like a works like a is more moves like a works like a movement where people used to take movement where people used to take contribution put it to somebody's contribution put it to somebody's individual account and all that. uh over individual account and all that. uh over a period of time they found out that a period of time they found out that that is not efficient with the taxation that is not efficient with the taxation and all that. So now every city has a and all that. So now every city has a LLP and this LLP have four or five LLP and this LLP have four or five office bearsers and then the money comes office bearsers and then the money comes in that LLP and then they spend that in that LLP and then they spend that entire money in that particular year. So entire money in that particular year. So there is a no profit no loss kind of a there is a no profit no loss kind of a situation that they built but that is situation that they built but that is only because they have done I think just only because they have done I think just one year back they have done that until one year back they have done that until now it was a groundup year. So he has now it was a groundup year. So he has decided that he he will spend time for decided that he he will spend time for this not for profofit. Now he has also this not for profofit. Now he has also retired. He has got out from his company retired. He has got out from his company because his only son is in US and he's because his only son is in US and he's not going to come back and he says I not going to come back and he says I want to give my life completely to TLC. want to give my life completely to TLC. So I want to spend time here. So he is So I want to spend time here. So he is no more part of that company. Yes, he no more part of that company. Yes, he has a nice office in that company has a nice office in that company because all those three partners are because all those three partners are friends and they said that they call him friends and they said that they call him Raju. So they said that K Raju whatever Raju. So they said that K Raju whatever you may not be associated as a director you may not be associated as a director or as a shareholder of this company or as a shareholder of this company anymore but you have a office here and anymore but you have a office here and you have to come and sit here. So very you have to come and sit here. So very loving very beautiful relationship that loving very beautiful relationship that they have. So with all these thought they have. So with all these thought processes he was very clear he will processes he was very clear he will start he will only work on this. Then I start he will only work on this. Then I gave him this idea of why can't we touch gave him this idea of why can't we touch so you are touching thousand lives can so you are touching thousand lives can we not touch 10,000 lives can we not we not touch 10,000 lives can we not touch 100,000 lives that is the idea touch 100,000 lives that is the idea that I I said so he thought for a couple that I I said so he thought for a couple of days and then he said okay let's do of days and then he said okay let's do it and that's how I think way back in it and that's how I think way back in March 2023 we thought of how frame works March 2023 we thought of how frame works then we so he has a beautiful then we so he has a beautiful uh farmhouse in Nasi just around 20 25 uh farmhouse in Nasi just around 20 25 minutes away so we went overnight uh one minutes away so we went overnight uh one day evening we went and we spent time day evening we went and we spent time from evening to next day afternoon and from evening to next day afternoon and we thrashed out the entire thing. Okay, we thrashed out the entire thing. Okay, how will we do it? So he was very clear. how will we do it? So he was very clear. So he has a very clear thought process. So he has a very clear thought process. He knows the problems of entrepreneurs. He knows the problems of entrepreneurs. So he said that um it's not just the So he said that um it's not just the solutions. It is also the problem solutions. It is also the problem identification which is very important. identification which is very important. And that's how he said that there is And that's how he said that there is something so we have to work with two something so we have to work with two pillars of organization. This entire pillars of organization. This entire solution has to have two pillars. One is solution has to have two pillars. One is problem identification and then problem identification and then structured solution. So this is what uh structured solution. So this is what uh uh is uh the how frameworks all about. uh is uh the how frameworks all about. But uh that's that's the kind of a But uh that's that's the kind of a inception journey that's the kind of inception journey that's the kind of thought process behind it. Uh our uh thought process behind it. Uh our uh tagline is very similar to what tagline tagline is very similar to what tagline is TLC as TLC says helping every Indian is TLC as TLC says helping every Indian entrepreneur succeed. Uh we just don't entrepreneur succeed. Uh we just don't have Indian we have every entrepreneur. have Indian we have every entrepreneur. We are basically going to help every We are basically going to help every entrepreneur succeed. So our tagline is entrepreneur succeed. So our tagline is very simple. Help every entrepreneur very simple. Help every entrepreneur succeed. That's the way we want to work. succeed. That's the way we want to work. So whatever uh hurdles are there, So whatever uh hurdles are there, whatever challenges are there in Indian whatever challenges are there in Indian owners, we will find out, we will owners, we will find out, we will understand their issues and we'll solve understand their issues and we'll solve them. Our step one is to solve it with them. Our step one is to solve it with structured solutions. But then we will structured solutions. But then we will come with many more aspects of our come with many more aspects of our product. Those will we'll talk about it. product. Those will we'll talk about it. But right now we are talking about is But right now we are talking about is the structured framework solutions for the structured framework solutions for them. give me a sense of specific them. give me a sense of specific problems that were solved by specific problems that were solved by specific frameworks like in your experience of frameworks like in your experience of going to BWSer at TLC and saying oh this going to BWSer at TLC and saying oh this is a problem I have and you said instead is a problem I have and you said instead of giving you solutions he would give of giving you solutions he would give you a framework can you give me a you a framework can you give me a specific example of that which makes it specific example of that which makes it easier for us to understand better huh easier for us to understand better huh yeah that there's a light bulb moment yeah that there's a light bulb moment hidden somewhere in thinking about the hidden somewhere in thinking about the framework simple framework like how do framework simple framework like how do you expand uh uh you your market. So he you expand uh uh you your market. So he said that key uh you have a product and said that key uh you have a product and you have a market. So you are with a you have a market. So you are with a existing product you are in an existing existing product you are in an existing market. Now how do you make your journey market. Now how do you make your journey easy going forward? So he just put out a easy going forward? So he just put out a 2x2 uh framework and he said existing 2x2 uh framework and he said existing product existing market. Then he said product existing market. Then he said existing product new market then uh new existing product new market then uh new existing territory new product and then existing territory new product and then new territory new market product. Now new territory new market product. Now these are the four things that are these are the four things that are combinations that happen. He will say combinations that happen. He will say always that key new product new always that key new product new territory never do because that's territory never do because that's absolutely difficult dangerous thing. So absolutely difficult dangerous thing. So how do you move ahead? So you move ahead how do you move ahead? So you move ahead is basically you have a current product is basically you have a current product and you have a loyal customer base. So and you have a loyal customer base. So you build a new product and go to that you build a new product and go to that customer and experiment that product customer and experiment that product with them. Or you have a very good with them. Or you have a very good established product in an established established product in an established market, you create an adjacent market, you create an adjacent territory. So if you are selling territory. So if you are selling something in India which is a successful something in India which is a successful product, go to Bangladesh, go to product, go to Bangladesh, go to Vietnam, go to Malaysia. These are Vietnam, go to Malaysia. These are similar ethnic background, Southeast similar ethnic background, Southeast Asia, think similarly. So how do you Asia, think similarly. So how do you look at your market expansion strategy? look at your market expansion strategy? This is the way. Don't go to Brazil. This is the way. Don't go to Brazil. Don't go to US just like that. Go to Don't go to US just like that. Go to adjacent markets. Go with the current adjacent markets. Go with the current product which is extremely successful in product which is extremely successful in the domestic way. You have figured it the domestic way. You have figured it out everything. Those kind of things. So out everything. Those kind of things. So like this there are so many small small like this there are so many small small small frameworks he small small small small frameworks he used to come out with no no don't think used to come out with no no don't think it like this even if it like this think it like this even if you are looking at how do you look at you are looking at how do you look at your finances how do you so there is your finances how do you so there is something called return on total uh something called return on total uh assets or rot so how do you look at rot assets or rot so how do you look at rot how do you figure out what is your fixed how do you figure out what is your fixed cost what is your variable cost how do cost what is your variable cost how do you then look at improving bringing in you then look at improving bringing in improvement so all these frameworks he improvement so all these frameworks he used to have that we used to go there used to have that we used to go there and we used to ask him and he will and we used to ask him and he will explain in this. So our uh frameworks explain in this. So our uh frameworks what we have now are completely designed what we have now are completely designed from bottom up. There are these are not from bottom up. There are these are not at all the standard uh seven liver at all the standard uh seven liver framework of vacancy or this or that framework of vacancy or this or that both BCG's network framework we are not both BCG's network framework we are not these are completely completely built these are completely completely built from ground up. So in TLC they have from ground up. So in TLC they have something called as critical business something called as critical business issues CBI. So whenever you have a issues CBI. So whenever you have a critical business issue how do you solve critical business issue how do you solve that critical business issue? So we have that critical business issue? So we have taken that as a framework and then we taken that as a framework and then we have built all these frameworks based have built all these frameworks based around that. No and and this groundup around that. No and and this groundup aspect is what really impresses me about aspect is what really impresses me about uh how frameworks because you know I uh how frameworks because you know I have always been a critic of how the big have always been a critic of how the big consultants you know function in India consultants you know function in India where a lot of what they are doing is where a lot of what they are doing is isomorphic mimicry that there is some isomorphic mimicry that there is some idea which has become fashionable idea which has become fashionable outside or it has worked in Detroit so outside or it has worked in Detroit so you try to transplant it here and say industry. These are the principles. It industry. These are the principles. It sounds really fancy. Uh if they are from sounds really fancy. Uh if they are from one of those big consulting firms, one of those big consulting firms, they'll wear suits and talk good they'll wear suits and talk good English. But they have no relation to English. But they have no relation to what is actually happening on the what is actually happening on the ground. And whatever I've seen of you ground. And whatever I've seen of you guys, it's very clear that it's very guys, it's very clear that it's very organic. It is relevant that uh you know organic. It is relevant that uh you know people can relate uh to it. This example people can relate uh to it. This example is a beautiful uh you know way of is a beautiful uh you know way of thinking uh to begin with. give me one thinking uh to begin with. give me one or two more examples because I I I just or two more examples because I I I just feel that it really brings that value feel that it really brings that value across for people who are listening and across for people who are listening and you know if any of the listeners are you know if any of the listeners are running uh before that I have to I have running uh before that I have to share one story of what uh what the to share one story of what uh what the usual consultant is for an MSME tell usual consultant is for an MSME tell okay so this is this happened way back okay so this is this happened way back I've probably told you guys this story I've probably told you guys this story before before before so uh one of my relatives on Sheila's so uh one of my relatives on Sheila's side uh moved to Pune in a beautiful side uh moved to Pune in a beautiful area called Kalyani Nagar and they area called Kalyani Nagar and they always used to invite us please come to always used to invite us please come to Kalyani Nagar please come to Kalyani Kalyani Nagar please come to Kalyani which is by the way the first place in which is by the way the first place in the world Kalyani Nagar where I saw a the world Kalyani Nagar where I saw a woman naked in the flesh have I told you woman naked in the flesh have I told you the story yes yeah just for the sake of the story yes yeah just for the sake of the listeners who may not know I was a the listeners who may not know I was a young boy so I was uh hanging out uh uh young boy so I was uh hanging out uh uh in the with a a friend of mine a in the with a a friend of mine a schoolmate of mine uh from bishop school schoolmate of mine uh from bishop school and he lived in Kalyani nagar if I and he lived in Kalyani nagar if I remember correctly and we were in his remember correctly and we were in his bedroom and there was a third friend bedroom and there was a third friend from our school who was also in the from our school who was also in the bedroom and uh this person whose bedroom bedroom and uh this person whose bedroom it is uh now is a very prominent u it is uh now is a very prominent u person now is all I'll say uh I I met person now is all I'll say uh I I met him once and I said hey do you remember him once and I said hey do you remember me and he seemed to remember me but me and he seemed to remember me but didn't seem very happy about it so he didn't seem very happy about it so he shall go unnamed extremely prominent shall go unnamed extremely prominent figure anyway so and a lot of foreigners figure anyway so and a lot of foreigners in those days lived in Kalyani Nagar in those days lived in Kalyani Nagar this is Punea in the late 1980s right So this is Punea in the late 1980s right So at uh because you know the Osho scene at uh because you know the Osho scene was going on and all that was was going on and all that was happening. So So across the hall from happening. So So across the hall from him there lived this um American couple him there lived this um American couple or a foreign couple. You assume they're or a foreign couple. You assume they're American because they're white. And one American because they're white. And one day me and this other um uh person just day me and this other um uh person just happened to be looking out of look look happened to be looking out of look look out just happened to look out of the out just happened to look out of the window from his curtain and there is a window from his curtain and there is a woman walking around completely stark woman walking around completely stark naked in the thing. And we in school we naked in the thing. And we in school we probably in seventh or eighth standard probably in seventh or eighth standard in the 1980s and uh this remarkable in the 1980s and uh this remarkable thing is uh ninth standard actually I thing is uh ninth standard actually I remember that for some reason and there remember that for some reason and there was this woman walking naked in u the was this woman walking naked in u the apartment. So we just kept watching and apartment. So we just kept watching and we would have glimpses in the door and we would have glimpses in the door and suddenly this woman does something which suddenly this woman does something which is remarkable and an act of unknowing is remarkable and an act of unknowing generosity. She comes to the balcony and generosity. She comes to the balcony and she opens her balcony door and she walks she opens her balcony door and she walks out on the balcony stuck naked and both out on the balcony stuck naked and both me and this uh friend uh are just gaping me and this uh friend uh are just gaping with our mouths open at which point we with our mouths open at which point we cannot control ourselves because we have cannot control ourselves because we have never seen something like this before. never seen something like this before. So we immediately open the door of u uh So we immediately open the door of u uh the our the the balcony of the room we the our the the balcony of the room we are in and we go out on the balcony till are in and we go out on the balcony till we are literally a meter or two away we are literally a meter or two away from her on the opposite balcony and from her on the opposite balcony and we're just gaping with our mouths open we're just gaping with our mouths open at which point she casually you know at which point she casually you know moves her body this way moves her body moves her body this way moves her body that way does a wiggle and a wrigle and that way does a wiggle and a wrigle and then she goes inside and shuts the door then she goes inside and shuts the door gently and that was the end of our gently and that was the end of our adventure which was also an important adventure which was also an important life lesson that we could just have kept life lesson that we could just have kept looking through the curtain and not any looking through the curtain and not any why am I even telling you this does this why am I even telling you this does this show me in a good light. I was an show me in a good light. I was an adolescent boy with raging hormones who adolescent boy with raging hormones who had never seen a naked woman in the had never seen a naked woman in the flesh before. So anyway, Kalyani Nagar, flesh before. So anyway, Kalyani Nagar, please please please continue. Yeah, my my micro industry continue. Yeah, my my micro industry became pretty continue. Sorry. This is a became pretty continue. Sorry. This is a family show. Yeah, terrible. So we want family show. Yeah, terrible. So we want to go to Ken. It was pre Google maps. So to go to Ken. It was pre Google maps. So Sheila, me and two boys, we are driving Sheila, me and two boys, we are driving there. We have got elaborate navigation there. We have got elaborate navigation instructions from our host which says uh instructions from our host which says uh you know come here you'll find this you know come here you'll find this place or something. So taking that list place or something. So taking that list because no Google maps we are driving because no Google maps we are driving I'm driving sheila's on the co-pilot I'm driving sheila's on the co-pilot seat and uh I usually drive by instinct seat and uh I usually drive by instinct right so I I hate uh asking for right so I I hate uh asking for directions and Sheila has to ask for directions and Sheila has to ask for directions every 10 m so she'll like ask directions every 10 m so she'll like ask someone for a direction like literally someone for a direction like literally 10 ft away she'll ask so we never reach 10 ft away she'll ask so we never reach the place so it's so anyway that the place so it's so anyway that day as we are driving towards Kalad I day as we are driving towards Kalad I got hopelessly lost because I'm not got hopelessly lost because I'm not familiar with familiar with familiar with Pune and it was the afternoon nothing Pune and it was the afternoon nothing was open and I started panicking so I was open and I started panicking so I thought we should ask for uh directions thought we should ask for uh directions so just couldn't find a single shop open so just couldn't find a single shop open and I was looking around increasingly and I was looking around increasingly getting desperate when I see a very getting desperate when I see a very dignified elderly gentleman just dignified elderly gentleman just standing in the shade of a tree just for standing in the shade of a tree just for no discernable able purpose is just no discernable able purpose is just standing there. So I stop my car I go standing there. So I stop my car I go out and I ask him in Morati I said hello out and I ask him in Morati I said hello sir uh would do you know how to get to sir uh would do you know how to get to Kalyani. So he looks at me majestically Kalyani. So he looks at me majestically and he says is this the Kalyani Nagar on and he says is this the Kalyani Nagar on the Abadagar road? So that was on the the Abadagar road? So that was on the list of I said yes. Uh is it near list of I said yes. Uh is it near Vimmanagar? So yeah, yes it is also Vimmanagar? So yeah, yes it is also Vibanagar was there. Is it near that Vibanagar was there. Is it near that Punavala stud farmer? Yes, yes it's Punavala stud farmer? Yes, yes it's Punavala stud farm. I'm getting really Punavala stud farm. I'm getting really excited. Then I ask him sir do you know excited. Then I ask him sir do you know where it is? He says no and he goes where it is? He says no and he goes away. So this in short is the consultant away. So this in short is the consultant of of of uh the kind of consultant which is uh the kind of consultant which is available to available to available to Msmemes. I have hired such people. They Msmemes. I have hired such people. They will come, they'll study all your will come, they'll study all your problems and give you no indication of problems and give you no indication of what direction to go in. It's happened what direction to go in. It's happened at least on two at least on two occasions. So that was my the point occasions. So that was my the point where I was coming why I'm so uh sort of where I was coming why I'm so uh sort of you know I I can't keep my enthusiasm you know I I can't keep my enthusiasm for how frameworks and what how for how frameworks and what how frameworks will do is they will hand you frameworks will do is they will hand you Google maps. Yes. And you will get and Google maps. Yes. And you will get and find your own. Exactly. they will give find your own. Exactly. they will give you they are the Google maps for Indian you they are the Google maps for Indian businesses. Yeah. For Yeah. businesses. Yeah. For Yeah. Yeah. So basically uh you are wanting to Yeah. So basically uh you are wanting to understand couple of uh like I don't understand couple of uh like I don't want you to give content away for free want you to give content away for free but I also know that you have many many but I also know that you have many many many hundreds of frameworks on the site many hundreds of frameworks on the site and etc etc. No I will give you couple and etc etc. No I will give you couple of things that are very very simple of things that are very very simple things that he had taught us. So there things that he had taught us. So there is something which is very simple. I is something which is very simple. I didn't know about it. Uh a simple didn't know about it. Uh a simple framework called Rasi. So Rasi is framework called Rasi. So Rasi is basically uh whenever you are wanting to basically uh whenever you are wanting to manage any task you he will ask always manage any task you he will ask always ask have you done Rasi and I like what ask have you done Rasi and I like what is Rasi and he said that if you are is Rasi and he said that if you are doing any task then you have to have doing any task then you have to have only one person who is responsible for only one person who is responsible for it. So you have to have responsibility it. So you have to have responsibility onto one person of that particular task. onto one person of that particular task. Now that person is responsible that is Now that person is responsible that is fine but somebody has to be accountable fine but somebody has to be accountable for that. Now because responsible person for that. Now because responsible person doesn't do anything then whom are you doesn't do anything then whom are you going to hold? So a person who has a going to hold? So a person who has a ultimate uh interest in that thing ultimate uh interest in that thing happening is the accountable person happening is the accountable person mostly the next boss over there he's mostly the next boss over there he's saying that he also says that okay boss saying that he also says that okay boss this is fine that you are responsible this is fine that you are responsible there is accountable you are defined but there is accountable you are defined but you need to consult with people because you need to consult with people because you want to get all the inputs properly you want to get all the inputs properly for that particular uh action to be for that particular uh action to be done. So you don't want to just take one done. So you don't want to just take one person who is responsible one person who person who is responsible one person who is accountable and then finish off. you is accountable and then finish off. you want to take people's consultation and want to take people's consultation and you want to get kind of good advice into you want to get kind of good advice into that task so that the if the the that task so that the if the the implementation of the task is much implementation of the task is much better so you need to consult some better so you need to consult some people and then you need to inform people and then you need to inform what's happening on that particular task what's happening on that particular task management so there are inform so rai so management so there are inform so rai so he would say that you make four columns he would say that you make four columns of rasi r a ci and you put your task on of rasi r a ci and you put your task on the left in the first column and you put the left in the first column and you put names over there for Every task if you names over there for Every task if you want your project to really succeed want your project to really succeed every task has to have a rasi and then every task has to have a rasi and then you can ask right questions to right you can ask right questions to right people when this task is not happening people when this task is not happening on time or if it is happening on time is on time or if it is happening on time is that the person who is responsible that the person who is responsible really acting on it or not is that the really acting on it or not is that the person who is accountable who is person who is accountable who is overseeing it and intervening when the overseeing it and intervening when the things are not happening on time or the things are not happening on time or the things are not happening the way it are things are not happening the way it are the people who are supposed to be the people who are supposed to be consulted being consulted or they are consulted being consulted or they are they are kept in isolation and they are they are kept in isolation and they are not in loop at And the people who need not in loop at And the people who need to be informed what is happening on this to be informed what is happening on this are they being informed repeat at a kind are they being informed repeat at a kind of a periodic way. So small small these of a periodic way. So small small these small small things small frameworks but small small things small frameworks but there are amazing frameworks that he there are amazing frameworks that he used to kind of and we have used these used to kind of and we have used these frameworks to make things happen in the frameworks to make things happen in the company because most of the time what company because most of the time what happens in small companies that key uh happens in small companies that key uh the clarity of who is supposed to be the clarity of who is supposed to be doing this is always missing. So doing this is always missing. So everybody will figure out a way So that clarity never comes in. If you So that clarity never comes in. If you put everything in the simple rasi put everything in the simple rasi framework, the clarity of whose role is framework, the clarity of whose role is what, who is supposed to do what, when what, who is supposed to do what, when can be this be done, when should this be can be this be done, when should this be done, all gets cleared. Another done, all gets cleared. Another framework that he used to have is that framework that he used to have is that key uh the action uh part you have to key uh the action uh part you have to basically do things. So when you are basically do things. So when you are kind of thinking about any decision kind of thinking about any decision there is a discussion going on do it lot there is a discussion going on do it lot with a lot of democratic way. So with a lot of democratic way. So discussion absolutely no problem. So you discussion absolutely no problem. So you do whatever you want to talk have do whatever you want to talk have discussion everything everything discussion everything everything everything has to happen democratically everything has to happen democratically but when you are implementing that but when you are implementing that implementation has to be dictatorial implementation has to be dictatorial then question so simple he will say okay then question so simple he will say okay fine have you spent have you decided fine have you spent have you decided democratically or not he would not ask democratically or not he would not ask anything else tick yes or no and then anything else tick yes or no and then are you implementing dictorially or not are you implementing dictorially or not so because dictorial is needed because so because dictorial is needed because once you taken the decision then once you taken the decision then everybody has to follow and move ahead. everybody has to follow and move ahead. What most of the time what we do or What most of the time what we do or SMSmemes what happens is that the SMSmemes what happens is that the decision-m is always dictatorial because decision-m is always dictatorial because the owner decides it and then the owner decides it and then implementation is always implementation is always democratic nobody is basically democratic nobody is basically responsible for that. So these are small responsible for that. So these are small small things which we learned at that small things which we learned at that point of time then but um if you want point of time then but um if you want I'll we'll come back to the actual I'll we'll come back to the actual frameworks a little later once I tell frameworks a little later once I tell you overall thought process how we went you overall thought process how we went through the entire creation journey but through the entire creation journey but but yes we'll come to that tell me about but yes we'll come to that tell me about that entire creation journey and this is that entire creation journey and this is very interesting that uh uh I have never very interesting that uh uh I have never built any online business before so this built any online business before so this was something which was absolutely new was something which was absolutely new and uh I like now I'm 55 plus So, so I and uh I like now I'm 55 plus So, so I was around 53 then and at this age I was was around 53 then and at this age I was always I've always been very comfortable always I've always been very comfortable with technology but building a tech with technology but building a tech product uh from grounds up was something product uh from grounds up was something which was absolutely I've never done it which was absolutely I've never done it and uh we originally started that okay and uh we originally started that okay we will have uh videos and we will build we will have uh videos and we will build videos that's what we had thought so we videos that's what we had thought so we actually built videos uh uh almost first actually built videos uh uh almost first 15 videos were built and uh those videos 15 videos were built and uh those videos were open-ended videos. Then uh Bhagaves were open-ended videos. Then uh Bhagaves one day said that Sud we are saying we one day said that Sud we are saying we are how frameworks and we are having are how frameworks and we are having frameworks as a but all our videos do frameworks as a but all our videos do not have that name of a framework. So not have that name of a framework. So typically all the frameworks generally typically all the frameworks generally have name. So we don't have name. So have name. So we don't have name. So just say Rasi is RACI responsibility just say Rasi is RACI responsibility accountability consulting and uh inform accountability consulting and uh inform inform that way we do not have those inform that way we do not have those acronyms there. And he said yeah. So and acronyms there. And he said yeah. So and we had already done uh the uh VO voice we had already done uh the uh VO voice over already done. So he said no can we over already done. So he said no can we should we do some naming like that? And should we do some naming like that? And I said fine but then it will take time. I said fine but then it will take time. He said yeah but then uh it will be very He said yeah but then uh it will be very interesting because it will go with our interesting because it will go with our name and then we scrapped all the 15 name and then we scrapped all the 15 voiceovers completely and he started voiceovers completely and he started building names for each framework. So building names for each framework. So our first framework became action our first framework became action framework. uh but then from there we framework. uh but then from there we went on building the uh frameworks uh went on building the uh frameworks uh bottoms up from there. So what happened bottoms up from there. So what happened is that uh uh we first uh defined that is that uh uh we first uh defined that key okay fine we are going to create uh key okay fine we are going to create uh videos. So we will we basically found videos. So we will we basically found found out what are the challenges that found out what are the challenges that we have forms problems that we are the we have forms problems that we are the the the critical business issues that we the the critical business issues that we have uh from businesses and then we have uh from businesses and then we mapped up the entire issues. We did a y mapped up the entire issues. We did a y analysis and we got into this while analysis and we got into this while doing these videos uh we realized that doing these videos uh we realized that uh video is a solution but the majority uh video is a solution but the majority of the times the problem that people of the times the problem that people have is that identification of the have is that identification of the problem. So typically I'll tell you that problem. So typically I'll tell you that uh my sale lead I'm not getting enough uh my sale lead I'm not getting enough leads. So what is the natural response leads. So what is the natural response is that natural response is basically is that natural response is basically okay fine uh marketing budget may be okay fine uh marketing budget may be short so the anybody the agency will short so the anybody the agency will come and say marketing budget up if you come and say marketing budget up if you have given just 50,000 or 75,000 have given just 50,000 or 75,000 increase marketing budget but if you increase marketing budget but if you have not done the customers have not done the customers understanding the ICP the ideal customer understanding the ICP the ideal customer profile done well if you have not really profile done well if you have not really found out what is your right market your found out what is your right market your uh TG if you have not defined clearly uh TG if you have not defined clearly your uh benefits uh the end user your uh benefits uh the end user benefits is not uh clear. If your benefits is not uh clear. If your perceived value is not clear, there are perceived value is not clear, there are so many things on the marketing side. If so many things on the marketing side. If those are not clear, increasing budget those are not clear, increasing budget is not going to be the solution. Which is not going to be the solution. Which means when somebody says my leads are means when somebody says my leads are not increasing or my sales is not not increasing or my sales is not happening, you need to ask right happening, you need to ask right questions so that you go to the right uh questions so that you go to the right uh problem. So he says that people say I problem. So he says that people say I have this problem. So he has a very nice have this problem. So he has a very nice thought process. He said people don't thought process. He said people don't have problems. People have pains like have problems. People have pains like the medicine in medical you don't know the medicine in medical you don't know what is a problem. You have always have what is a problem. You have always have a pain. key I have a headache, I have a a pain. key I have a headache, I have a stomach ache or whatever ache and then stomach ache or whatever ache and then you go to a doctor and then the doctor you go to a doctor and then the doctor asks you certain questions and negates asks you certain questions and negates certain things and after that negation certain things and after that negation he then will maybe tell you to do some he then will maybe tell you to do some investigation and then they will come at investigation and then they will come at some absolute precise thing that this is some absolute precise thing that this is the problem that we are seeing. So he the problem that we are seeing. So he says that when entrepreneurs say they says that when entrepreneurs say they have a problem I say no you have a pain have a problem I say no you have a pain uh we will figure out a problem and uh we will figure out a problem and that's how the Yway analysis uh done. So that's how the Yway analysis uh done. So we have these two principles as I said we have these two principles as I said one is the first principle thinking one is the first principle thinking where you do the y analysis you ask why where you do the y analysis you ask why five times and you will get an answer. five times and you will get an answer. So we have this entire problem So we have this entire problem identifier as a product on the one side identifier as a product on the one side and then we have structured solution on and then we have structured solution on the other side. So we started uh the other side. So we started uh building these videos uh we uh so so building these videos uh we uh so so this was completely a new thing to us. this was completely a new thing to us. Uh I didn't know how to make I had Uh I didn't know how to make I had constraints on the entire budget. we had constraints on the entire budget. we had uh put up a a price that okay we cannot uh put up a a price that okay we cannot go beyond 15 20,000 rupees per video go beyond 15 20,000 rupees per video that is the budget that we will keep that is the budget that we will keep because we have limited money so typical because we have limited money so typical theme business constraint leavein theme business constraint leavein constraints and then we figured out what constraints and then we figured out what kind of a style we can build so we had kind of a style we can build so we had lot of uh uh video animation guys we lot of uh uh video animation guys we will figured out how to do it uh we will figured out how to do it uh we figured out uh so so Bvesar used to give figured out uh so so Bvesar used to give me a full script of the video okay this me a full script of the video okay this is the script of the video Then I would is the script of the video Then I would go through uh the grammar. I would go go through uh the grammar. I would go through simplification of words because through simplification of words because he is writing in his spree. Somebody has he is writing in his spree. Somebody has to kind of check it. So I used to kind to kind of check it. So I used to kind of edit this and make it sometimes uh of edit this and make it sometimes uh maybe change certain words to make them maybe change certain words to make them simplified and all that. Once this is simplified and all that. Once this is done then we used to I used to take that done then we used to I used to take that entire PDF and send it to uh person. So entire PDF and send it to uh person. So our Anoj Gurwara who is the CWC member our Anoj Gurwara who is the CWC member he is from Hyderabad and he is a guy he is from Hyderabad and he is a guy whose voice I had heard and I knew that whose voice I had heard and I knew that key he had on our CWC group only he had key he had on our CWC group only he had once responded to somebody saying that once responded to somebody saying that key he does uh voiceovers uh for ads and key he does uh voiceovers uh for ads and all. So I reached out to him and I asked all. So I reached out to him and I asked him that key this is what I'm building him that key this is what I'm building and I want somebody human voice okay and I want somebody human voice okay because I tried uh the AI AI voices were because I tried uh the AI AI voices were there u Murf AI was the one which I there u Murf AI was the one which I tried it was very efficient but I was tried it was very efficient but I was not getting that kind of a oomph we made not getting that kind of a oomph we made around four or five videos with AI voice around four or five videos with AI voice and we showed it to few people and and we showed it to few people and everybody came and said that the voice everybody came and said that the voice is too cold. Now the voices are much is too cold. Now the voices are much better uh in over a period of time but better uh in over a period of time but then almost around one and a half year then almost around one and a half year back uh the AI voice was not so great. back uh the AI voice was not so great. So then we said okay fine we'll have to So then we said okay fine we'll have to go for human voice. So we worked with go for human voice. So we worked with Anoj. So then we we finalized the how we Anoj. So then we we finalized the how we are going to work with. So I used to are going to work with. So I used to have 10 scripts together and each script have 10 scripts together and each script was around 7 7 and 1/2 8 minute. So was around 7 7 and 1/2 8 minute. So around 1 hour 10 minute 1 hour 20 minute around 1 hour 10 minute 1 hour 20 minute once I have that bunch I would send to once I have that bunch I would send to Anoj and Anoj would build the voice over Anoj and Anoj would build the voice over and send me the voice files for all of and send me the voice files for all of them while we are building this uh we uh them while we are building this uh we uh one of my friend I gave him I asked him one of my friend I gave him I asked him that can you help me build these videos that can you help me build these videos and they'll say we'll figure it out and and they'll say we'll figure it out and that's how then we decided we I met I that's how then we decided we I met I must have met at least 30 different uh must have met at least 30 different uh animation guys and I did not somebody animation guys and I did not somebody came out with ridiculous number. Now I came out with ridiculous number. Now I have got uh people telling me that 1 have got uh people telling me that 1 minute will cost you a lakh of rupees. minute will cost you a lakh of rupees. That means one video of 78 minutes would That means one video of 78 minutes would cost me something like 78 lakh rupees. cost me something like 78 lakh rupees. Yes, they will say okay we'll give bulk Yes, they will say okay we'll give bulk discount and all that but one video no discount and all that but one video no less than uh 3 three three and a2 lakh less than uh 3 three three and a2 lakh rupees for 7 7 and 1/2 8 minutes and rupees for 7 7 and 1/2 8 minutes and that kind of a money I didn't have. I that kind of a money I didn't have. I said that okay I have put something like said that okay I have put something like uh 50 70 lakhs rupees this and I am uh 50 70 lakhs rupees this and I am going to operate entirely into going to operate entirely into constraints. Uh we figured out we found constraints. Uh we figured out we found out animation artist we found out how to out animation artist we found out how to do this. Now this script uh we know that do this. Now this script uh we know that all key whenever somebody is hearing all key whenever somebody is hearing something uh whatever they are hearing something uh whatever they are hearing if it is the same thing which is on the if it is the same thing which is on the screen then the retention is much screen then the retention is much better. You cannot have a dissonance better. You cannot have a dissonance between what we are hearing and what you between what we are hearing and what you are seeing. So we were very clear that are seeing. So we were very clear that whatever we are putting in the script whatever we are putting in the script few words from there which are keywords few words from there which are keywords have to come on the screen then there have to come on the screen then there has to be an associated image which is has to be an associated image which is depicting that particular words meaning depicting that particular words meaning or that phrase's meaning and come on the or that phrase's meaning and come on the screen. So then we decided how how this screen. So then we decided how how this entire look and feel will be and then we entire look and feel will be and then we built that entire look and feel and then built that entire look and feel and then we started building the uh auto we started building the uh auto illustrator files out of it. So every illustrator files out of it. So every video will have around 15 16 slides. uh video will have around 15 16 slides. uh the pics are taken from uh the uh uh uh the pics are taken from uh the uh uh uh the stock photography. We had license uh the stock photography. We had license uh sub subscription for that pickup license sub subscription for that pickup license images pick up over there and we images pick up over there and we literally taught artist how do we want literally taught artist how do we want it. So we created what is the kind of a it. So we created what is the kind of a uh typography we want what are the kind uh typography we want what are the kind of imagery we want how we want them to of imagery we want how we want them to be placed how will the then animation be placed how will the then animation guys we how do we want it to be moved so guys we how do we want it to be moved so that entire work happened and it was that entire work happened and it was really really excruciating like madness really really excruciating like madness one uh storyboard making uh takes almost one uh storyboard making uh takes almost around 3 three and a half hours where around 3 three and a half hours where you have to uh take the entire view on you have to uh take the entire view on the left side then pick up certain words the left side then pick up certain words then you show relationship ship between then you show relationship ship between this. So there is one concept and then this. So there is one concept and then there are two subconcepts of it. So how there are two subconcepts of it. So how do you show them on the screen stuff do you show them on the screen stuff like that it was a crazy uh learning uh like that it was a crazy uh learning uh then at a parallel time you have to also then at a parallel time you have to also find out what is the productivity. So uh find out what is the productivity. So uh I I was not getting enough videograph I I was not getting enough videograph animation video guys who will exactly do animation video guys who will exactly do this. Then I gave an ad into one group this. Then I gave an ad into one group and I got uh two animation guys. Those and I got uh two animation guys. Those guys are on full-time payroll. uh we got guys are on full-time payroll. uh we got the entire uh uh creative done through the entire uh uh creative done through freelancers all that and all this done freelancers all that and all this done uh sometime between 20 uh yeah 2024 uh uh sometime between 20 uh yeah 2024 uh May June we started really getting the May June we started really getting the final videos out finished sometime in final videos out finished sometime in the month of January 2025 so in 7 8 the month of January 2025 so in 7 8 months we built entire thing around uh months we built entire thing around uh 12 videos per month we used to churn out 12 videos per month we used to churn out and get it while we were making videos and get it while we were making videos we were also parallelly building the we were also parallelly building the software so I I have a team which is software so I I have a team which is complete freelancers. Uh my product head complete freelancers. Uh my product head is uh from ci. I have somebody who does is uh from ci. I have somebody who does the UIUX who is basically from Chennai. the UIUX who is basically from Chennai. The content comes from uh uh somebody The content comes from uh uh somebody who is in Noa. Uh then I had another uh who is in Noa. Uh then I had another uh design person nowhere there because design person nowhere there because there's no work now. Uh she used to work there's no work now. Uh she used to work from Pune. Uh somebody who would do the from Pune. Uh somebody who would do the content cre the the the implementation content cre the the the implementation guides and all that. Somebody in guides and all that. Somebody in Bangalore. these software developers in Bangalore. these software developers in Bangalore. So all across India uh Bangalore. So all across India uh there's not a single person who is on there's not a single person who is on the full-time everybody is part-time. the full-time everybody is part-time. Everybody is doing fractional work. Uh Everybody is doing fractional work. Uh they work everybody works between 4 five they work everybody works between 4 five hours to around 15 20 hours a week uh at hours to around 15 20 hours a week uh at uh yeah but freelancer everybody uh yeah but freelancer everybody coordination I'm the coordination point coordination I'm the coordination point complete coordination is done by me. So complete coordination is done by me. So over a period of time we built uh that over a period of time we built uh that we had a uh focus group also almost we had a uh focus group also almost around 20 25 entrepreneurs few from t around 20 25 entrepreneurs few from t teaching and learning community few from teaching and learning community few from my ascent and all of them we used to my ascent and all of them we used to show certain examples of video certain show certain examples of video certain examples of product we did a pricing examples of product we did a pricing exercise understood from there what exercise understood from there what pricing would be uh people will be pricing would be uh people will be willing to pay for something like this willing to pay for something like this and this entire journey I think taught a and this entire journey I think taught a lot to me. I got to use so many lot to me. I got to use so many technologies. uh uh we use something technologies. uh uh we use something like uh ClickUp which is a project like uh ClickUp which is a project management software and uh there are management software and uh there are multiple softwares we use uh some multiple softwares we use uh some softwares to check whether the website softwares to check whether the website so so there's something called browser so so there's something called browser stack where you get to see whether the stack where you get to see whether the technologies are all uh the screen uh technologies are all uh the screen uh whether the screen looks right on iOS whether the screen looks right on iOS and on Android and multiple screens uh and on Android and multiple screens uh we use bitly our the entire portal is we use bitly our the entire portal is Android is said to be particularly Android is said to be particularly nightmarish because it's on a wide nightmarish because it's on a wide variety of platforms and uh if you don't variety of platforms and uh if you don't have everything right it'll look really have everything right it'll look really bizarre on some of the platforms and bizarre on some of the platforms and also we wanted to get the these videos also we wanted to get the these videos we wanted people not to kind of we wanted people not to kind of downloadable so we want to have a DRM uh downloadable so we want to have a DRM uh so for that we use a platform called so for that we use a platform called Bunny so multiple technologies all was Bunny so multiple technologies all was absolute new learning for absolute new learning for had right now last one one and a half had right now last one one and a half year understanding technology has been year understanding technology has been one of the big part of my learning one of the big part of my learning journey. So that's how we launch uh on journey. So that's how we launch uh on the 26th 27th of February and uh almost the 26th 27th of February and uh almost around now uh almost 2 months we just around now uh almost 2 months we just closing yeah 2 months yeah tomorrow closing yeah 2 months yeah tomorrow we'll complete 2 months of launching 60 we'll complete 2 months of launching 60 days of launching we already have around days of launching we already have around 450 subscribers amazing congratulations 450 subscribers amazing congratulations no I've seen you through this process no I've seen you through this process and just figure all of this stuff out and just figure all of this stuff out and uh um you know both your work ethic and uh um you know both your work ethic and your pace of learning is uh like uh and your pace of learning is uh like uh kind of mind-blowing isn't it? So I mean kind of mind-blowing isn't it? So I mean uh I often tell people I think Narin uh I often tell people I think Narin you'll agree that the one problem in my you'll agree that the one problem in my life is that I'm not Sudhi Sarna. life is that I'm not Sudhi Sarna. Absolutely. Like I could have achieved Absolutely. Like I could have achieved so much if I was you know in the in so much if I was you know in the in terms of the the willpower and the if I terms of the the willpower and the if I was Sudha Sarnabad I would definitely was Sudha Sarnabad I would definitely achieve much more than Sudhir Sarnabad. achieve much more than Sudhir Sarnabad. How how how because I'm better looking How how how because I'm better looking also. This is this is a point I was also. This is this is a point I was wondering what he's going to say but wondering what he's going to say but Narin is very good-looking especially Narin is very good-looking especially today. Everybody tells me that I'm so handsome. Everybody tells me that I'm so handsome. Yeah, at least Donald Trump would say Yeah, at least Donald Trump would say why you're in the room. But jokes apart, why you're in the room. But jokes apart, I have to tell some. So I have been an I have to tell some. So I have been an enthusiastic user of uh how frame works enthusiastic user of uh how frame works actually there are two things only two actually there are two things only two areas where I have actually uh seen. So areas where I have actually uh seen. So one uh my problem problem in my industry one uh my problem problem in my industry or my particular company is that my uh or my particular company is that my uh return on investment is not great. I return on investment is not great. I invest a lot of money and I'm not invest a lot of money and I'm not getting enough out of it. That's what I getting enough out of it. That's what I always feel and I really don't know what always feel and I really don't know what to do. So one part of it is that the to do. So one part of it is that the machinery is expensive. I've invested a machinery is expensive. I've invested a lot of money in plant of machinery. lot of money in plant of machinery. Second is my uh uh you know my customer Second is my uh uh you know my customer base is not easily expandable because I base is not easily expandable because I supply to OE you know automotive supply to OE you know automotive companies. So you can't just walk into companies. So you can't just walk into an automotive company and start selling an automotive company and start selling your stuff. You have to get orders RFQS your stuff. You have to get orders RFQS things like that. So how do you go about things like that. So how do you go about improving your profitability? And it was improving your profitability? And it was always like very hazy. And then what always like very hazy. And then what this is what happens when you have hazy this is what happens when you have hazy and uh sort of non uh concrete problems, and uh sort of non uh concrete problems, you tend to put them off. If there's a you tend to put them off. If there's a very specific pain, you will address it. very specific pain, you will address it. But if it's hazy, you know there's a But if it's hazy, you know there's a problem, but you don't can't put your problem, but you don't can't put your finger on it. You tend to or as he would finger on it. You tend to or as he would say, you know, there's a pain, not a say, you know, there's a pain, not a problem. Pain, hazy pain. What the problem. Pain, hazy pain. What the framework? Uh so I use something called framework? Uh so I use something called a proactive framework. Oh. So it was a proactive framework. Oh. So it was there's so much clarity. So they there's so much clarity. So they basically R stand for that res return on basically R stand for that res return on total uh P was the performance of the total uh P was the performance of the assets. So each thing stands for assets. So each thing stands for something and it focuses your attention something and it focuses your attention on one particular aspect of uh and for on one particular aspect of uh and for me I realized my real problem when I me I realized my real problem when I went through the whole thing was my went through the whole thing was my people my employees were not really people my employees were not really trained properly and they were not trained properly and they were not getting the best out of the equipment getting the best out of the equipment which is why my equip the machinery which is why my equip the machinery plant and machinery was not delivering plant and machinery was not delivering what it was supposed to be delivering. what it was supposed to be delivering. So I was focusing on the wrong part. I So I was focusing on the wrong part. I was focusing on the equipment all the was focusing on the equipment all the time when the real problem was in my time when the real problem was in my team and not even in my team. It was team and not even in my team. It was basically that I was not training my basically that I was not training my team properly management and that really team properly management and that really resulted in excellent uh results and now resulted in excellent uh results and now it's opened a lot of doors. So now it's opened a lot of doors. So now exactly we know the shortcomings of our exactly we know the shortcomings of our equipment as well. So we know how to equipment as well. So we know how to augment that equipment so that we can augment that equipment so that we can because now we are very sure that the because now we are very sure that the people are working at full steam. So uh people are working at full steam. So uh it's a it's a great clarity tool and as it's a it's a great clarity tool and as he said you know Baser would always tell he said you know Baser would always tell not give a straight answer. So you know not give a straight answer. So you know this is the framework you go through all this is the framework you go through all these points and you will know the these points and you will know the answer and this is a great way it's a answer and this is a great way it's a way of making you think for yourself way of making you think for yourself while giving you the tool that you need while giving you the tool that you need to do so so I I think uh you know it's to do so so I I think uh you know it's it's it's very potentially extremely it's it's very potentially extremely beneficial to all kinds of I'm I'm from beneficial to all kinds of I'm I'm from the manufacturing world so it's clearly the manufacturing world so it's clearly beneficial to me but I can see it being beneficial to me but I can see it being beneficial to literally every service beneficial to literally every service industries be they you for sales, B2C, industries be they you for sales, B2C, B2B, anything. I think the entire B2B, anything. I think the entire product what we have thought is has two product what we have thought is has two pillars. Uh a pillar number one is the pillars. Uh a pillar number one is the first principle thinking where you find first principle thinking where you find out identify the uh problem. So you go out identify the uh problem. So you go through the pain and then identify the through the pain and then identify the problem. Now we have what we have done problem. Now we have what we have done is that key over a period of time TLC is that key over a period of time TLC has understood there are around so our has understood there are around so our TG is around 10 cr revenue up to 150 cr TG is around 10 cr revenue up to 150 cr revenue. That's our target market. Uh revenue. That's our target market. Uh why we are not going to micro because why we are not going to micro because micro businesses are generally a micro businesses are generally a survival ventures and there are two six survival ventures and there are two six cr uh 12 lakhs 13 lakhs businesses which cr uh 12 lakhs 13 lakhs businesses which are in that segment and everything is are in that segment and everything is very different. So you have to really very different. So you have to really really get out of that first orbit of really get out of that first orbit of business to come to structured way of business to come to structured way of thinking. Till that time you are a thinking. Till that time you are a survival venture. You are trying to survival venture. You are trying to figure out a way to go to that 8 n 10 cr figure out a way to go to that 8 n 10 cr revenue. So once you come there then revenue. So once you come there then there is a opportunity for growing and there is a opportunity for growing and going to 10 10x which is 100 cr and 500 going to 10 10x which is 100 cr and 500 cr and stuff like that. So that's our cr and stuff like that. So that's our TG. Now all this TG we have found out TG. Now all this TG we have found out over a period of time there are over a period of time there are homogenized uh seven issues that they homogenized uh seven issues that they have. The first issue is that key where have. The first issue is that key where sales is not growing. Then second is sales is not growing. Then second is that my profitability is very low and that my profitability is very low and these are all pains not profit. These these are all pains not profit. These are all absolutely pains. These are are all absolutely pains. These are pains. My profitability is not uh good. pains. My profitability is not uh good. My uh cash flow is basically very tight. My uh cash flow is basically very tight. I am not getting right people. My people I am not getting right people. My people are not motivated enough. My some of my are not motivated enough. My some of my customers are not happy with my service customers are not happy with my service or product. And lastly, I don't get time or product. And lastly, I don't get time for doing anything. I am always busy. So for doing anything. I am always busy. So these are the kind of seven problems these are the kind of seven problems that uh seven pes that we have taken for that uh seven pes that we have taken for any businesses. What we have done is any businesses. What we have done is that key when you so so these are seven that key when you so so these are seven pins you click on the pen and then it pins you click on the pen and then it will take you and ask you that key will take you and ask you that key whether this is are you a B2B business whether this is are you a B2B business B2C business or B2B supplier so B2B is B2C business or B2B supplier so B2B is any business which is supplying to any business which is supplying to business any business is supplying to business any business is supplying to consumer and B2B supplier is typically consumer and B2B supplier is typically the entrepreneurs or the companies which the entrepreneurs or the companies which supply to the bigger company the OE so supply to the bigger company the OE so contract so basically Mahindra and contract so basically Mahindra and Mindra suppliers are called B2B supplier Mindra suppliers are called B2B supplier so or Tata or anybody else like that. so or Tata or anybody else like that. Now, so you go on so the every time you Now, so you go on so the every time you click on some option, it will open up click on some option, it will open up further more options. You go on clicking further more options. You go on clicking what that is what pertains to you. Go on what that is what pertains to you. Go on clicking that and then you come at a clicking that and then you come at a point where we say okay for the pain point where we say okay for the pain that you started with and the answers that you started with and the answers that you gave until now uh this is the that you gave until now uh this is the problem that we think you have and then problem that we think you have and then we talk about I think the statistics we we talk about I think the statistics we give a global or Indian statistics and give a global or Indian statistics and say that so many people also have say that so many people also have problem. So don't be worried about it. problem. So don't be worried about it. Lot of other people are also facing Lot of other people are also facing this. And then we give a solution. Now this. And then we give a solution. Now we have a video solution where the we have a video solution where the framework is there. Now this framework framework is there. Now this framework is basically nothing but a structured is basically nothing but a structured solution for solving. Which means it solution for solving. Which means it will have if it is a sevenst step will have if it is a sevenst step framework then it will have seven steps framework then it will have seven steps that you have to follow and the substeps that you have to follow and the substeps that are there. Now this is in video that are there. Now this is in video after the video is shown to the person after the video is shown to the person then we have a small quiz. So I picked then we have a small quiz. So I picked up this from marginal university MRU. If up this from marginal university MRU. If you know some macroeconomics and you know some macroeconomics and macroeconomics where you listen to a macroeconomics where you listen to a video or watch a video and then you video or watch a video and then you answer the questions and unless you answer the questions and unless you click on the right answer it will keep click on the right answer it will keep on popping up. So basically it actually on popping up. So basically it actually enforces the right answer to you even if enforces the right answer to you even if you have missed something. So we have you have missed something. So we have done the same thing. There is a small done the same thing. There is a small quiz 78 questions you answer. So we just quiz 78 questions you answer. So we just check whether you have uh used this check whether you have uh used this basically understood this video or not. basically understood this video or not. What we have done is that see we are not What we have done is that see we are not wanting people to give gan we want them wanting people to give gan we want them to do things that's why this is not a to do things that's why this is not a why frameworks or this is not a what why frameworks or this is not a what frameworks this is how frameworks that frameworks this is how frameworks that means how do you implement this in your means how do you implement this in your business we want you to implement and we business we want you to implement and we want you to succeed and that's why this want you to succeed and that's why this is how frameworks that's why what we is how frameworks that's why what we have done is that we have done a have done is that we have done a implementation guide so what we are implementation guide so what we are saying is that uh this is the framework saying is that uh this is the framework that you have understood now solve this that you have understood now solve this problem in 12 weeks, 90 days flat. And problem in 12 weeks, 90 days flat. And then we have created a implementation then we have created a implementation guide where says in week one do this, in guide where says in week one do this, in week two you do this, in week three you week two you do this, in week three you do this, in week four you do this. All do this, in week four you do this. All 12 weeks action plan is given in an PDF 12 weeks action plan is given in an PDF format. You can download and use it. Now format. You can download and use it. Now as a owner you might give this to one as a owner you might give this to one person down the line this implementation person down the line this implementation plan and tell them to do. But you need plan and tell them to do. But you need to have a checklist whether things are to have a checklist whether things are happening as per the system or not as happening as per the system or not as per the framework or not. So you have a per the framework or not. So you have a checklist which you can download. Now checklist which you can download. Now whenever you are doing something as a whenever you are doing something as a new goal or new pro problem solving you new goal or new pro problem solving you also need to measure whether you are also need to measure whether you are performing well or not. So what we have performing well or not. So what we have done is that we have created dashboards done is that we have created dashboards Excel dashboards which are simple Excel dashboards which are simple because I we wanted SM owners don't use because I we wanted SM owners don't use something fancy they use simple Excel. something fancy they use simple Excel. So we have picked up uh the key result So we have picked up uh the key result areas KAS and KPIs for that particular areas KAS and KPIs for that particular uh task or that particular problem uh task or that particular problem solving and those KPIs are mentioned solving and those KPIs are mentioned over there and then those indicators over there and then those indicators have we have given value key what should have we have given value key what should be the value what is the measuring unit be the value what is the measuring unit and 12 weeks you go on putting data into and 12 weeks you go on putting data into it so that you know your progress. So it so that you know your progress. So this entire thing is basically a tool this entire thing is basically a tool kit for solving that problem. We have kit for solving that problem. We have gone a little one step ahead and we said gone a little one step ahead and we said okay fine now we have given you a 7 8 okay fine now we have given you a 7 8 minute video we have given you quiz we minute video we have given you quiz we have given you implementation guide we have given you implementation guide we have given you checklist we have given have given you checklist we have given you dashboard now if you want to go you dashboard now if you want to go deeper in this particular problem then deeper in this particular problem then these are the five books which you can these are the five books which you can read and we have created book summaries read and we have created book summaries so we have more than around 500 books so we have more than around 500 books already listed on it with the Amazon already listed on it with the Amazon link they can go and buy and we have link they can go and buy and we have built small summaries of these books built small summaries of these books also almost around 500 books we have also almost around 500 books we have built last over one year we have built built last over one year we have built summaries for them So all this kit is summaries for them So all this kit is there. Now from the one side when person there. Now from the one side when person comes so why we started. So we have more comes so why we started. So we have more than 100 videos over there as a solution than 100 videos over there as a solution we have more than 450 flows. So if you we have more than 450 flows. So if you start clicking 111 option and then go to start clicking 111 option and then go to a different flow and then a third flow a different flow and then a third flow and a fourth flow. You have more than and a fourth flow. You have more than 450 flows on the one side and 100 450 flows on the one side and 100 solutions on the other side. Now why we solutions on the other side. Now why we started with this minimum? So we were started with this minimum? So we were thinking about whether we should only thinking about whether we should only take sales growth as a problem. I said take sales growth as a problem. I said that you know if you are going then we that you know if you are going then we go all in we will basically solve try go all in we will basically solve try and solve all the problem if somebody and solve all the problem if somebody comes and says no my problem is a comes and says no my problem is a profitability so this is not useful to profitability so this is not useful to me we said that okay let's not do that me we said that okay let's not do that let's build this entire thing now we let's build this entire thing now we have said that any problem that you have said that any problem that you solve this can be solved in 3 months 12 solve this can be solved in 3 months 12 weeks or 90 days that we are talking weeks or 90 days that we are talking about no problem get solved in 3 months about no problem get solved in 3 months we have given a stretch target I think we have given a stretch target I think people will take at least 6 to 12 6 to 9 people will take at least 6 to 12 6 to 9 months for solving any problem that they months for solving any problem that they are taking in hand. So but then we have are taking in hand. So but then we have given that as a three month uh 3 months. given that as a three month uh 3 months. Now even if you look at 3 months for Now even if you look at 3 months for solving one problem and if you want to solving one problem and if you want to solve all your business problems we have solve all your business problems we have given material worth 25 years of work given material worth 25 years of work already there 25 years of work you want already there 25 years of work you want to solve all aspects of your business I to solve all aspects of your business I think nothing will be perfect in your think nothing will be perfect in your organization if you go through this organization if you go through this frameworks you can perfect everything frameworks you can perfect everything there is a 25 years of work available there is a 25 years of work available for entrepreneur on day one on this for entrepreneur on day one on this portal that's what we have tried to portal that's what we have tried to build on there that is it yeah amazing build on there that is it yeah amazing so Uh so give me a sense of how it works so Uh so give me a sense of how it works in terms of pricing like if I'm a in terms of pricing like if I'm a customer what can I expect and then have customer what can I expect and then have you already had success stories coming you already had success stories coming out of this where customers have said out of this where customers have said that wow man that really helped us. So that wow man that really helped us. So uh we have uh three different uh pricing uh we have uh three different uh pricing plans. Uh we have a 3-month plan. So we plans. Uh we have a 3-month plan. So we know that key a lot many people don't know that key a lot many people don't know me and Baser and this is a new know me and Baser and this is a new website and how can I trust it and all website and how can I trust it and all that. So we have kept 5,000 rupees uh that. So we have kept 5,000 rupees uh plus uh GST. Now everybody will get plus uh GST. Now everybody will get benefit for the GST. So we have that GST benefit for the GST. So we have that GST flow. We give GST invoice and all that. flow. We give GST invoice and all that. So 5,000 for 3 months, 14,000 rupees for So 5,000 for 3 months, 14,000 rupees for a year and 60,000 rupees for uh 3 years a year and 60,000 rupees for uh 3 years for two people. So we the second for two people. So we the second subscription comes. So so that comes for subscription comes. So so that comes for 30,000 for 3 years for one person. 30,000 for 3 years for one person. That's the kind of a model uh we had That's the kind of a model uh we had done in detailed exercise on pricing and done in detailed exercise on pricing and perceived value and we felt that uh perceived value and we felt that uh people coming up with around 1,000 people coming up with around 1,000 rupees plus 1,000 rupees a month is rupees plus 1,000 rupees a month is something which people should be able to something which people should be able to give. Uh if you really really break this give. Uh if you really really break this down uh the price comes to less than 40 down uh the price comes to less than 40 rupees a day is a less than a coffee in rupees a day is a less than a coffee in an small uh uh restaurant. Yeah, the an small uh uh restaurant. Yeah, the restaurant coffee is now 40 rupees. is restaurant coffee is now 40 rupees. is less than the 2D restaurant coffee uh less than the 2D restaurant coffee uh place. So that's the pricing that we place. So that's the pricing that we have. We wanted to keep the pricing so have. We wanted to keep the pricing so low. So I had uh uh so I'm part of low. So I had uh uh so I'm part of ascend. So I had got and chance I had ascend. So I had got and chance I had requested for a time slot with hers requested for a time slot with hers Mariaala Hbai we call him hbai of Marico Mariaala Hbai we call him hbai of Marico and he runs the asin foundation is his and he runs the asin foundation is his uh not for-p profofit venture. So I had uh not for-p profofit venture. So I had got chance to meet him and explain the got chance to meet him and explain the kind of elaborate and seek his advice kind of elaborate and seek his advice and his uh question he he he liked the and his uh question he he he liked the idea he said yes the flow is very nice idea he said yes the flow is very nice this is very interesting this can go to this is very interesting this can go to a lot of entrepreneurs across India uh a lot of entrepreneurs across India uh what is the pricing and when I said what is the pricing and when I said 14,000 rupees he literally was shocked 14,000 rupees he literally was shocked because I think he thought this will be because I think he thought this will be uh priced at something like 1 one and a uh priced at something like 1 one and a half two lakh rupees because see if you half two lakh rupees because see if you compare uh what is the comparison who compare uh what is the comparison who are whom are we competing with we are are whom are we competing with we are actually one is consultant but in actually one is consultant but in consultant I think yes people need that consultant I think yes people need that handholding but people are not ready to handholding but people are not ready to go to consultant unless they see certain go to consultant unless they see certain value in structured working I think we value in structured working I think we feel that what we are doing is that key feel that what we are doing is that key we are giving you a structured way of we are giving you a structured way of working and then when you need extra working and then when you need extra capacity uh I think hersan had talked on capacity uh I think hersan had talked on uh seen and unseen only that consultant uh seen and unseen only that consultant is a capacity on the tap that means is a capacity on the tap that means consultant is not just coming for advice consultant is not just coming for advice consultant also comes at doing things consultant also comes at doing things for you because CEO is busy. So a for you because CEO is busy. So a consultant because creates a project consultant because creates a project office and builds that uh entire office and builds that uh entire additional project if it is a growth additional project if it is a growth project if it is a diversity project if it is a diversity projectification project is a new projectification project is a new product project the consultant comes and product project the consultant comes and does that so we are not really competing does that so we are not really competing with consultant but yes that cost point with consultant but yes that cost point of consultant charging 12 to 15 lakhs of consultant charging 12 to 15 lakhs against we are 14,000 is just that but against we are 14,000 is just that but we are I think competing or we are we are I think competing or we are really giving an alternative for people really giving an alternative for people randomly going on Google or people randomly going on Google or people randomly going on YouTube and trying to randomly going on YouTube and trying to find out something where people are saying all those saying all those random videos which come where the where random videos which come where the where you get a video lecture for let's say you get a video lecture for let's say 1999 rupees and then that 199 rupees 1999 rupees and then that 199 rupees then they push you to 99999 rupees then they push you to 99999 rupees another package and ultimately they take another package and ultimately they take you to you to you to 49999 so I think I I I we never believed 49999 so I think I I I we never believed me and Bhagwuri never believed that key me and Bhagwuri never believed that key entrepreneurs are fool and who will get entrepreneurs are fool and who will get swayed by this 99999 thing. Uh we wanted swayed by this 99999 thing. Uh we wanted to keep a simple pricing um open to keep a simple pricing um open transparent and this is the price and transparent and this is the price and this is you will get immense value. We this is you will get immense value. We both of us we believe that key the value both of us we believe that key the value has to be 10x than what you are charging has to be 10x than what you are charging then only people will put their hand in then only people will put their hand in the pocket and pay you money. So I think the pocket and pay you money. So I think we believe that the value from this is we believe that the value from this is almost 10x that one can get. It's so almost 10x that one can get. It's so ridiculously cheap that uh I am reminded ridiculously cheap that uh I am reminded of um uh a scarlet dressing gown bought of um uh a scarlet dressing gown bought by a French writer of the 18th century. by a French writer of the 18th century. You know what I'm talking about, Narin. You know what I'm talking about, Narin. Obviously, he's nodding. So, here's what Obviously, he's nodding. So, here's what is going to happen to me. I think you've is going to happen to me. I think you've ruined me. Um I think you've ruined me. ruined me. Um I think you've ruined me. Let me tell you how. Because um there's Let me tell you how. Because um there's a gentleman named Denise Dither and uh a gentleman named Denise Dither and uh Denise Diaro. Dani Diro. Dani Diaro once Denise Diaro. Dani Diro. Dani Diaro once wrote this great essay in 1769 called wrote this great essay in 1769 called regrets on parting with my old dressing regrets on parting with my old dressing gown and the fun was that he parted with gown and the fun was that he parted with his old dressing gown and he bought a his old dressing gown and he bought a beautiful scarlet dressing gown and now beautiful scarlet dressing gown and now this led to a huge problem because he this led to a huge problem because he bought the scarlet dressing gown and bought the scarlet dressing gown and then he said key nothing else in my room then he said key nothing else in my room compares to this. So he looked at his compares to this. So he looked at his old straw chair and then he had to old straw chair and then he had to replace it with an armchair covered in replace it with an armchair covered in Moroccan leather and then he had an old Moroccan leather and then he had an old desk. He replaced it with an expensive desk. He replaced it with an expensive new writing table and then he had like new writing table and then he had like uh random prints of sentimental value to uh random prints of sentimental value to him but he replaced them with most him but he replaced them with most costly prints and then eventually he costly prints and then eventually he said I was absolute master of my old said I was absolute master of my old dressing gown but I have become a slave dressing gown but I have become a slave to my new one. So what's going to happen to my new one. So what's going to happen to me Sudir is that I'm going to think to me Sudir is that I'm going to think this is so cheap and I am technically this is so cheap and I am technically the entrepreneur of my own brand. Let me the entrepreneur of my own brand. Let me also buy uh this because it is so cheap. also buy uh this because it is so cheap. It's like ridiculous. 14,000 is like It's like ridiculous. 14,000 is like what the It's like ridiculous you what the It's like ridiculous you know when you think of the value. So know when you think of the value. So then I will buy it but then I will think then I will buy it but then I will think that now that I have access to how that now that I have access to how frameworks what a shame if I don't have frameworks what a shame if I don't have a business to build. So then I will a business to build. So then I will start a business and then I will think start a business and then I will think what a shame that when I have started a what a shame that when I have started a business and I have access to how business and I have access to how frameworks that I'm not investing into frameworks that I'm not investing into building it in ABC way in XYZ way etc building it in ABC way in XYZ way etc etc and then I will start putting money etc and then I will start putting money into all of these and the thing here is into all of these and the thing here is to note that the thing to note here is to note that the thing to note here is rather if I may get the order of my rather if I may get the order of my words correctly which is always words correctly which is always advisable and that excellent as the advisable and that excellent as the frameworks might be you know my own self frameworks might be you know my own self may not be competent enough to be able may not be competent enough to be able to achieve anything with this business to achieve anything with this business that I started not because there is a that I started not because there is a gap in the market or I am good at gap in the market or I am good at something but simply because I had a new something but simply because I had a new dressing gown and then everything could dressing gown and then everything could fall apart. No, no, but I'm kidding. fall apart. No, no, but I'm kidding. This sounds amazing. Tell me about you This sounds amazing. Tell me about you know uh and the thing about uh how know uh and the thing about uh how frameworks is even if you are frameworks is even if you are incompetent which you no doubt are uh it incompetent which you no doubt are uh it doesn't matter because how frameworks doesn't matter because how frameworks will tell you pretty much how to get out will tell you pretty much how to get out of that situation. Correct. So I will of that situation. Correct. So I will keep using it as a crutch. I might even keep using it as a crutch. I might even but yeah you'll always need to have but yeah you'll always need to have bigger and bigger problems for how bigger and bigger problems for how frameworks to solve. With every problem frameworks to solve. With every problem that I have, I will tell myself this is that I have, I will tell myself this is not a problem dear sir. This is a mere not a problem dear sir. This is a mere pain pain pain and you know and a solution is surely to and you know and a solution is surely to be found in how frameworks and I will be found in how frameworks and I will upgrade to the 60,000 wall for two upgrade to the 60,000 wall for two people and then I will bring you in people and then I will bring you in Narin. I'll say and then you and I will start a say and then you and I will start a business together Narendra. You see business together Narendra. You see where this is going? This doesn't end where this is going? This doesn't end very well. very well. very well. So yeah. Why did you make it so cheap? So yeah. Why did you make it so cheap? Now we are No, no, but I I Now we are No, no, but I I actually think that the value is so actually think that the value is so enormous that I I also my mind boggles a enormous that I I also my mind boggles a little bit that it is really so little bit that it is really so affordable. Like if if anyone listening affordable. Like if if anyone listening to this has a a small business or a to this has a a small business or a friend with a small business or an friend with a small business or an acquaintance with a small business or acquaintance with a small business or knows of a small business, it makes uh knows of a small business, it makes uh actually no sense not to buy this actually no sense not to buy this because I think it is it's more of a because I think it is it's more of a mission than anything else because what mission than anything else because what it's really doing is it's making your it's really doing is it's making your entire end toend business more entire end toend business more efficient, more productive. It's just efficient, more productive. It's just squeezing out a lot of unwanted um you squeezing out a lot of unwanted um you know idle activities and fat out of the know idle activities and fat out of the system and making it leaner. That gives system and making it leaner. That gives you two advantages. It makes you more you two advantages. It makes you more profitable. It makes you nimler and both profitable. It makes you nimler and both things more extremely important to things more extremely important to survive and prosper in the new world survive and prosper in the new world that's coming. No. What is more that's coming. No. What is more important is that it makes you a better important is that it makes you a better thinker and better think and the better thinker and better think and the better thought goes out into the ecosystem thought goes out into the ecosystem because then you're talking to other because then you're talking to other businessmen and just the everybody's businessmen and just the everybody's level goes up and I think that this is level goes up and I think that this is mind-blowing because we consumers will mind-blowing because we consumers will get better served like you know good get better served like you know good things will happen for us also but to go things will happen for us also but to go back I mean have you been talking to back I mean have you been talking to your customers have they spoken about your customers have they spoken about ways in which it's already sort of ways in which it's already sort of worked out for them I'll just give you worked out for them I'll just give you some ideas on the frameworks first so some ideas on the frameworks first so I'll give you around five six frameworks I'll give you around five six frameworks which we have which how do they help and which we have which how do they help and then I'll go to the user journeys and then I'll go to the user journeys and how people are using it so we have this how people are using it so we have this framework called leads leads basically framework called leads leads basically helps you identify so what happens is helps you identify so what happens is that in India that in India allmemes sale to large customers and allmemes sale to large customers and when you are buying to large customers when you are buying to large customers selling to large customers or government selling to large customers or government buyers the sales entire sales journey is buyers the sales entire sales journey is complex and the decision-m at the complex and the decision-m at the customer's end is multi-layer basically customer's end is multi-layer basically the processes are long and then your the processes are long and then your investment into sales cycle is very investment into sales cycle is very long. Now at the end of all this then a long. Now at the end of all this then a decision comes where you will uh get the decision comes where you will uh get the order or you will not get the order. order or you will not get the order. That means your entire journey you have That means your entire journey you have painstakingly spending time on that painstakingly spending time on that entire journey and at the end you will entire journey and at the end you will just lose all that effort. Now how do just lose all that effort. Now how do you make that entire journey more you make that entire journey more efficient so that your chances of efficient so that your chances of winning that order is better is what we winning that order is better is what we are trying to solve with leads in that are trying to solve with leads in that why we we tell people how nurturing lead why we we tell people how nurturing lead is why it is important what is exactly is why it is important what is exactly nurturing lead means how to nurture nurturing lead means how to nurture leads who should nurture leads because leads who should nurture leads because in organization uh everybody has to have in organization uh everybody has to have that clear responsibility at what is the that clear responsibility at what is the right time to nurture leads and then right time to nurture leads and then basically just so so we have this uh uh basically just so so we have this uh uh leads frame framework which basically leads frame framework which basically talks about uh leads uh lead nurturing talks about uh leads uh lead nurturing strategy. Then we have engage with how strategy. Then we have engage with how do you engage with CRM tools. Then we do you engage with CRM tools. Then we have action follow-up. So basically what have action follow-up. So basically what we are talking about um the next step we are talking about um the next step and then how do you do sales management and then how do you do sales management which is a lot of companies absolutely which is a lot of companies absolutely do not have sales management. They have do not have sales management. They have sales department but they don't know the sales department but they don't know the field sales and somebody who is sitting field sales and somebody who is sitting in the office and managing the sales are in the office and managing the sales are two different people need to do it two different people need to do it differently. Then how do you strengthen differently. Then how do you strengthen relationship with customer? So the leads relationship with customer? So the leads means exactly this these this acronym means exactly this these this acronym comes from uh the uh lead nurturing comes from uh the uh lead nurturing strategy engaging with the CRM tools uh strategy engaging with the CRM tools uh active followup uh developing the sales active followup uh developing the sales management systems and strengthening the management systems and strengthening the relationship. So that is so the play relationship. So that is so the play that leads play is around this uh six uh that leads play is around this uh six uh five activities that we have. Then we five activities that we have. Then we have interesting framework called have interesting framework called digital. So as we were talking about digital. So as we were talking about that a lot of businesses are not really that a lot of businesses are not really digital at all. So we with basically digital at all. So we with basically paid advertising see uh small companies paid advertising see uh small companies uh do not have real good resources that uh do not have real good resources that they can go and do advertising uh left they can go and do advertising uh left right and center and then you need to right and center and then you need to have your right customers and your have your right customers and your customers are so dispersed. So creating customers are so dispersed. So creating a good digital presence can become a a good digital presence can become a good advertising for your own brand. So good advertising for your own brand. So how do you do that uh entirely is what how do you do that uh entirely is what we teach or we kind of give structured we teach or we kind of give structured advice on how do you become a digital uh advice on how do you become a digital uh kind of a business. Then we have kind of a business. Then we have something called price uh as a framework something called price uh as a framework PIC. the price India's uh entire market PIC. the price India's uh entire market is very price sensitive and the margins is very price sensitive and the margins are very very thin and at that time if are very very thin and at that time if you want to really define what is the you want to really define what is the cost flow that you have and what do you cost flow that you have and what do you build as a value based anchors with the build as a value based anchors with the in the customer's mind so that you in the customer's mind so that you define the psychological price points define the psychological price points and then you basically check how these and then you basically check how these price points can really get you to where price points can really get you to where you want. So this price framework is you want. So this price framework is basically perception of value, basically perception of value, realigning strategic market positioning, realigning strategic market positioning, then interacting and understanding your then interacting and understanding your customers, cost optimization without customers, cost optimization without sacrificing the quality and employing sacrificing the quality and employing the flexible pricing model. This is what the flexible pricing model. This is what the price framework helps you. Then we the price framework helps you. Then we have something called as a tide have something called as a tide framework. Now tide is what our cash framework. Now tide is what our cash flow problems. So delayed payments from flow problems. So delayed payments from your is a basic problem in India. If you your is a basic problem in India. If you are we were talking about the cash flow are we were talking about the cash flow challenges that we have or the working challenges that we have or the working capital need it all comes from the capital need it all comes from the delayed payments and uh we wanted to delayed payments and uh we wanted to basically tell people how do you do basically tell people how do you do structured credit control so that you structured credit control so that you don't give excessive credit if the don't give excessive credit if the somebody is becoming a bad pay master somebody is becoming a bad pay master how do you get that in control how do how do you get that in control how do you identify new customers so that so you identify new customers so that so basically what tide means is that basically what tide means is that tightening controls improving your tightening controls improving your customers pay payment behavior customers pay payment behavior diversifying your customer base because diversifying your customer base because if your current customer base is not if your current customer base is not paying on time, you need to diversify paying on time, you need to diversify and not put all your eggs. The shocks and not put all your eggs. The shocks minimize the shock. Minimize the shocks. minimize the shock. Minimize the shocks. So, so you will always keep praying that So, so you will always keep praying that key that person will give you money some key that person will give you money some time, but the action is that you need to time, but the action is that you need to diversify your hope is not a strategy. diversify your hope is not a strategy. Hope is not a strategy. You're right. Hope is not a strategy. You're right. Hope I think that's Harish's book. No, Hope I think that's Harish's book. No, Harish has Harish has Harish has harish the city compound. I think he has harish the city compound. I think he has that line on his book that hope is not a that line on his book that hope is not a strategy. Yeah. And then finally strategy. Yeah. And then finally enforcing payment policies. So basically enforcing payment policies. So basically when we were talking about tide, tide when we were talking about tide, tide basically takes care of something like basically takes care of something like this. Then we have something called as a this. Then we have something called as a focus framework. So focus framework is focus framework. So focus framework is basically uh whenever there are first basically uh whenever there are first generation entrepreneurs who basically generation entrepreneurs who basically are buying uh machines or buying offices are buying uh machines or buying offices uh they do lot of expenditure which is uh they do lot of expenditure which is not needed at all. So you buy a bigger not needed at all. So you buy a bigger office, you buy a land. The way you were office, you buy a land. The way you were talking about that MIDC, they take land talking about that MIDC, they take land and they keep it over and that see any and they keep it over and that see any asset which is not sweating out is not asset which is not sweating out is not really a good asset. It is a dead asset. really a good asset. It is a dead asset. It is basically so there is land you It is basically so there is land you have and if it is not giving you any have and if it is not giving you any return is not it's absolutely of no use. return is not it's absolutely of no use. So focus framework basically talks about So focus framework basically talks about financial discipline, objective financial discipline, objective assessment of assets that you want to assessment of assets that you want to buy, controlling the vanity spending. We buy, controlling the vanity spending. We talk a lot about vanity spending. talk a lot about vanity spending. entrepreneurs will once they have cash entrepreneurs will once they have cash flow a little cash flow they will go and flow a little cash flow they will go and buy uh fancy cars or buy bigger houses buy uh fancy cars or buy bigger houses and stuff like that. So when it is how and stuff like that. So when it is how do you control that? How do you utilize do you control that? How do you utilize space and resources efficiently and how space and resources efficiently and how do you do strategic planning for do you do strategic planning for long-term success? So the focus is long-term success? So the focus is simply acronymium for all these five simply acronymium for all these five activities. Then we have something activities. Then we have something called as tips framework tapes which called as tips framework tapes which basically talks about you have attrition basically talks about you have attrition of uh your skilled labor and you have uh of uh your skilled labor and you have uh the wage inflation uh which is happening the wage inflation uh which is happening and you now want to kind of take care of and you now want to kind of take care of that. So how do you target right that. So how do you target right channels for hiring? How do you amplify channels for hiring? How do you amplify your employer branding? How do you your employer branding? How do you personalize the customers experience the personalize the customers experience the the the candidates experience? How do the the candidates experience? How do you evaluate performance of all your uh you evaluate performance of all your uh recruitment uh channels? and how do you recruitment uh channels? and how do you streamline processes? So I think I have streamline processes? So I think I have given you around four or five given you around four or five frameworks. So these are the frameworks frameworks. So these are the frameworks that we have. Now how are our customers that we have. Now how are our customers using it? Uh we are coming getting with using it? Uh we are coming getting with interesting uh yeah at least two three interesting uh yeah at least two three use cases we are getting. One is that uh use cases we are getting. One is that uh people are learning on their own. Uh so people are learning on their own. Uh so they are basically using it for their they are basically using it for their own clarity, their own thought processes own clarity, their own thought processes because uh they have not been seeing because uh they have not been seeing things so clearly until now. Now things so clearly until now. Now suddenly they are seeing that oh I have suddenly they are seeing that oh I have been doing it but these two steps I was been doing it but these two steps I was missing. I was doing three but I was not missing. I was doing three but I was not doing these two. Now if because I have doing these two. Now if because I have not got success these are the two things not got success these are the two things which were missing. So that is coming which were missing. So that is coming out very clearly. Uh what people are out very clearly. Uh what people are doing is that people are also using this doing is that people are also using this uh to train their employees. So one use uh to train their employees. So one use case that I saw in Kapur is that that case that I saw in Kapur is that that particular person uh trains uh he he particular person uh trains uh he he believes into training. So every believes into training. So every Saturday between 12:00 and 1 1 hour he Saturday between 12:00 and 1 1 hour he used to talk to people about certain used to talk to people about certain aspects but he said that I was always aspects but he said that I was always doing a discussion with them. So it was doing a discussion with them. So it was a monologue I will tell and people will a monologue I will tell and people will listen sitting like a classroom. He says listen sitting like a classroom. He says that what I did was that I just logged that what I did was that I just logged into my account uh put a projector on into my account uh put a projector on and showed this uh particular uh so I and showed this uh particular uh so I told my people my employees to tell me told my people my employees to tell me what is the pain that they have. You what is the pain that they have. You come out with your own pain and employee come out with your own pain and employee will came came with a pain. He said okay will came came with a pain. He said okay fine now you go on selecting the options fine now you go on selecting the options for it and come to a solution. Now then for it and come to a solution. Now then that come when they came to a solution that come when they came to a solution then they say okay fine now we are then they say okay fine now we are showing this entire uh video to showing this entire uh video to everybody sitting in this. So he has everybody sitting in this. So he has some 55 employees out of which around 12 some 55 employees out of which around 12 employees are senior level. So he sits employees are senior level. So he sits with those 12 employees and he said now with those 12 employees and he said now this is the solution. Now once that this is the solution. Now once that solution is checked by everybody now solution is checked by everybody now they went to the quiz and they said okay they went to the quiz and they said okay fine now have you understood this video fine now have you understood this video or not and then give answers and then or not and then give answers and then people started now suddenly that entire people started now suddenly that entire monologue of earlier now it has become monologue of earlier now it has become very interactive. Now there is a video very interactive. Now there is a video there is a there is a engagement in that there is a engagement in that entire process of identifying the so entire process of identifying the so then he is showing that okay fine now then he is showing that okay fine now you give the answer now he is then taken you give the answer now he is then taken okay fine now this is the implementation okay fine now this is the implementation plan he took a print out he said gave it plan he took a print out he said gave it to that guy who has that problem okay to that guy who has that problem okay now you implement and let's talk about now you implement and let's talk about it in 3 months now this particular it in 3 months now this particular person is coming out and saying that key person is coming out and saying that key now that I have a subscription can I get now that I have a subscription can I get 10 more subscription for my employees so 10 more subscription for my employees so that they can keep always thinking so that they can keep always thinking so I'm suddenly having a different use case I'm suddenly having a different use case where it is not only at employee the where it is not only at employee the employer or the owner but their employer or the owner but their employees are also he says that the if employees are also he says that the if I'm paying that person 67 lakh rupees a I'm paying that person 67 lakh rupees a year let's say at senior level in jun in year let's say at senior level in jun in small cities you pay around 67 lakhs the small cities you pay around 67 lakhs the best pay at senior level in 60 70 80 cr best pay at senior level in 60 70 80 cr company will be around 15 lakh and all company will be around 15 lakh and all he said paying additional 14,000 1,000 he said paying additional 14,000 1,000 rupees per month so if I'm paying that rupees per month so if I'm paying that person 50,000 rupees a month paying person 50,000 rupees a month paying 1,000 rupees more and if that person's 1,000 rupees more and if that person's productivity is going to be 10x And if productivity is going to be 10x And if that person is going to think like I that person is going to think like I would think I will be free in couple of would think I will be free in couple of years time because that these people years time because that these people only will take the company ahead. I have only will take the company ahead. I have to just then provide them resources and to just then provide them resources and give them a direction. They come on the give them a direction. They come on the same page because that depth of same page because that depth of understanding it completely transforms. understanding it completely transforms. This is actually such enlightened This is actually such enlightened thinking that the leader says that I thinking that the leader says that I will bring everyone up to my level and will bring everyone up to my level and therefore uh uh you know so did he buy therefore uh uh you know so did he buy the 10 extra this thing or did you give the 10 extra this thing or did you give him a group? This this is just so we him a group? This this is just so we basically have to build that one small basically have to build that one small module where we can give the yeah so module where we can give the yeah so that module will be get over by by that module will be get over by by around 30th of April we'll build that around 30th of April we'll build that module where we can upload 10 people and module where we can upload 10 people and give them 10 subscriptions at a so we give them 10 subscriptions at a so we basically build this as a one-on-one basically build this as a one-on-one subscription model so we are basically subscription model so we are basically learning a lot so we we first people learning a lot so we we first people came out with saying that key uh the came out with saying that key uh the subscription is not easy so because we subscription is not easy so because we have to go through that entire flow so have to go through that entire flow so we changed our entire subscription flow we changed our entire subscription flow now some people are coming and saying now some people are coming and saying that key uh we want to just understand that key uh we want to just understand video and knowing understanding the video and knowing understanding the video we want to then go to the problem video we want to then go to the problem uh identification uh algorithm. So we uh identification uh algorithm. So we are now building a YouTube like video are now building a YouTube like video library entirely. This tool of multiple library entirely. This tool of multiple subscriptions is what we are building. subscriptions is what we are building. So we're building slowly slowly. I think So we're building slowly slowly. I think this tool will be ready by this month this tool will be ready by this month end. Yeah. Amazing. I mean such a end. Yeah. Amazing. I mean such a important reason why you need to keep important reason why you need to keep talking to your consumers to figure out talking to your consumers to figure out how are they using the product. Yeah. how are they using the product. Yeah. Absolutely. Absolutely. Absolutely. Absolutely. Absolutely. And we also have an uh affiliate model. And we also have an uh affiliate model. So what we thought of that is that if we So what we thought of that is that if we have to really really make it people's have to really really make it people's work then anybody and everybody who has work then anybody and everybody who has interface as you said that anybody who interface as you said that anybody who knows entrepreneur should be able to knows entrepreneur should be able to give it and at the same time I don't give it and at the same time I don't want somebody to do this free. So we want somebody to do this free. So we have an affiliate model where we say have an affiliate model where we say that okay fine uh this is my uh 14,000 that okay fine uh this is my uh 14,000 price but if you become an affiliate you price but if you become an affiliate you your customer will get certain discount your customer will get certain discount and you will also get certain money. So and you will also get certain money. So we have something called we have something called affiliate.howframeworks.com affiliate.howframeworks.com affiliate.howframeworks.com howframeworks.com where people can go howframeworks.com where people can go and become affiliate create their own and become affiliate create their own coupon code and give that coupon code to coupon code and give that coupon code to entrepreneur and with that coupon code entrepreneur and with that coupon code if the entrepreneur buys this product if the entrepreneur buys this product they will get certain discount on this they will get certain discount on this 14,000 rupees and even the person who is 14,000 rupees and even the person who is recommending with the coupon code is recommending with the coupon code is going to get so we are looking at who going to get so we are looking at who are the people uh who would like to are the people uh who would like to become an affiliate now all the become an affiliate now all the chartered accountants all the small chartered accountants all the small entrepreneurs go to their chartered entrepreneurs go to their chartered accountants and get their advice for accountants and get their advice for anything and Everything now working anything and Everything now working capital you are getting working capital capital you are getting working capital of 50 lakh because your business has of 50 lakh because your business has grown up and you now need 75 lakhs you grown up and you now need 75 lakhs you will go to your chartered accountant. will go to your chartered accountant. You are building taking a small new You are building taking a small new factory and want to build something you factory and want to build something you want to build a project report for that want to build a project report for that you go to your chartered accountant. Now you go to your chartered accountant. Now if chartered accountant learn this and if chartered accountant learn this and basically start helping their basically start helping their entrepreneurs customers in a little entrepreneurs customers in a little deeper manner you are doing a great deeper manner you are doing a great service and if that person grows the service and if that person grows the chartered accountant business also is chartered accountant business also is going to grow. So it's basically a going to grow. So it's basically a win-win situation for everybody. We are win-win situation for everybody. We are looking at uh the recruitment looking at uh the recruitment consultants who basically help get a consultants who basically help get a candidate. Now these people if these candidate. Now these people if these candidates go and learn these tools. Now candidates go and learn these tools. Now I'm simply saying that if you are a I'm simply saying that if you are a candidate and who wants to join an theme candidate and who wants to join an theme now if you buy a subscription let's say now if you buy a subscription let's say you buy 3 month subscription and go you buy 3 month subscription and go through five six seven videos and while through five six seven videos and while you are sitting in front of that you are sitting in front of that entrepreneur because at at a senior entrepreneur because at at a senior level entrepreneur will take your level entrepreneur will take your interview and if you tell how to solve interview and if you tell how to solve that entrepreneurs problem learning from that entrepreneurs problem learning from how frameworks you have better chance of how frameworks you have better chance of joining that company and getting that joining that company and getting that job no and if you are talking in this job no and if you are talking in this manner getting that 10% extra salary is manner getting that 10% extra salary is going to be very That means if you are going to be very That means if you are pitching for let's say a six lakh or 10 pitching for let's say a six lakh or 10 lakh let's say 10 lakh rupees job and if lakh let's say 10 lakh rupees job and if you are going to get a lakh of rupees you are going to get a lakh of rupees more as an compensation your ROI is huge more as an compensation your ROI is huge 20 times or you bought a 5,000 rupees 3 20 times or you bought a 5,000 rupees 3 month subscription and you got 20 times month subscription and you got 20 times returns so we are looking at uh the returns so we are looking at uh the recruitment consultants as affiliates recruitment consultants as affiliates who would uh give it to the companies who would uh give it to the companies that they are working with also the that they are working with also the entrepreneurs or the the uh employees entrepreneurs or the the uh employees who would want to join uh these who would want to join uh these companies companies companies banks we are looking at how so I I would banks we are looking at how so I I would be talking to a few banks because uh be talking to a few banks because uh banks uh if the company that you are banks uh if the company that you are giving loan to if that company starts giving loan to if that company starts working efficiently your chances of that working efficiently your chances of that going loan going bad are much lesser so going loan going bad are much lesser so a bank has a vested interest in that a bank has a vested interest in that company doing better so we are saying company doing better so we are saying that if banks start giving this as a that if banks start giving this as a tool to their theme section so there tool to their theme section so there every bank has a theme vertical and if every bank has a theme vertical and if banks start giving this as tool for all banks start giving this as tool for all their SM clients, it's just poulry some their SM clients, it's just poulry some you the kind of interest that banks earn you the kind of interest that banks earn from SMMES if they do give this as a from SMMES if they do give this as a tool and if these entrepreneurs start tool and if these entrepreneurs start improving their businesses I think the improving their businesses I think the banks are at a win-win position also so banks are at a win-win position also so I think we are seeing multiple use cases I think we are seeing multiple use cases where people would like to kind of plug where people would like to kind of plug this in in their ecosystem and improve this in in their ecosystem and improve the overall efficiency and effectiveness the overall efficiency and effectiveness of this system that's what it sounds of this system that's what it sounds absolutely mind-blowing amazing uh much absolutely mind-blowing amazing uh much needed but I I think you're pricing it needed but I I think you're pricing it too low. Uh so therefore, anyone who's too low. Uh so therefore, anyone who's listening to this, just go out listening to this, just go out and get it now because at some point and get it now because at some point Yeah. Yeah. suddenly he'll change his Yeah. Yeah. suddenly he'll change his mind and it'll cost like 3x or 5x and mind and it'll cost like 3x or 5x and he'll be like buy. So discount code for he'll be like buy. So discount code for my listeners, bro. I mean I don't want a my listeners, bro. I mean I don't want a referral fee. That's cool. But discount referral fee. That's cool. But discount code for my listeners to ah let's make code for my listeners to ah let's make seen unseen. Scene unseen guys. So scene seen unseen. Scene unseen guys. So scene unseen. One word scene unseen. That is a unseen. One word scene unseen. That is a discount code which Sudhir is offering. discount code which Sudhir is offering. How much tucker will they get off bro? How much tucker will they get off bro? Ah, you want to give 4,000 rupees off? Ah, you want to give 4,000 rupees off? Let's make 14,000 uh 10,000 only. Dude, Let's make 14,000 uh 10,000 only. Dude, this is wild. This is like giving it this is wild. This is like giving it away free. Ah, but let's do it. I'll say away free. Ah, but let's do it. I'll say like we have uh such a great fan like we have uh such a great fan following. We will we will do this. following. We will we will do this. Yeah. Yeah. So, just guys uh use the Yeah. Yeah. So, just guys uh use the code seen unseen and you'll get 4,000 code seen unseen and you'll get 4,000 bucks off on the 14,000 thing. And I'm bucks off on the 14,000 thing. And I'm telling you that even if you don't telling you that even if you don't actually have an one, if you're a actually have an one, if you're a candidate, if you ever work in a candidate, if you ever work in a company, it is very useful to think to company, it is very useful to think to use these frameworks to um you know uh use these frameworks to um you know uh think about the business that you're in. think about the business that you're in. And I just think for being a better And I just think for being a better thinker in general, this is great stuff thinker in general, this is great stuff because this is groundup wisdom that has because this is groundup wisdom that has come. This is not uh you know there are come. This is not uh you know there are books on what you learned at Harvard books on what you learned at Harvard Business School and you really need to Business School and you really need to and blah blah blah. And I'm saying screw and blah blah blah. And I'm saying screw all that. This is groundup wisdom which all that. This is groundup wisdom which has come from within our towns and has come from within our towns and cities in India and uh especially if cities in India and uh especially if you're here. It could make you look at you're here. It could make you look at your society uh differently and uh yeah your society uh differently and uh yeah go get it. Oh thank you. So you know we go get it. Oh thank you. So you know we are not done yet. I think we could have are not done yet. I think we could have spoken for five more hours. I'm just in spoken for five more hours. I'm just in love with what you're doing and many of love with what you're doing and many of those uh frameworks itself and uh it's those uh frameworks itself and uh it's it's it's tough that you you look at it it's it's tough that you you look at it and some of it is like light bulb goes and some of it is like light bulb goes off in the head and but and you need off in the head and but and you need time to process it. So it's amazing. So time to process it. So it's amazing. So I'm going to ask you to end the episode I'm going to ask you to end the episode with you know how which is give with you know how which is give recommendations to me and my listeners recommendations to me and my listeners for u uh books, films, music which mean for u uh books, films, music which mean a lot to you which you haven't a lot to you which you haven't recommended before on the show because recommended before on the show because you've both been on the show. So and you've both been on the show. So and Sudhir perhaps you might have uh uh you Sudhir perhaps you might have uh uh you know recommendations which are know recommendations which are specifically to do specifically to do withmemes and frameworks and so on. withmemes and frameworks and so on. Yeah. So I we have done a bunch of Yeah. So I we have done a bunch of almost around 500 books on the this is a almost around 500 books on the this is a collection of 500 books on various collection of 500 books on various subjects but I'll just pick maybe uh 7 8 subjects but I'll just pick maybe uh 7 8 10 of them. So uh good to great by Jim 10 of them. So uh good to great by Jim Collins is something which is amazing Collins is something which is amazing book. I think everybody every book. I think everybody every entrepreneur must have it in their I entrepreneur must have it in their I also feel that understanding economics also feel that understanding economics if you are wanting to make sense of this if you are wanting to make sense of this tariffs and if you want to make sense of tariffs and if you want to make sense of import export and making India and stuff import export and making India and stuff like that uh you need to understand like that uh you need to understand economics and there is no better book economics and there is no better book than economics in one lesson by Henry than economics in one lesson by Henry Aglit everybody should read that uh Aglit everybody should read that uh there is a beautiful book called the there is a beautiful book called the goal by Ilia Goldrat it's uh it's about goal by Ilia Goldrat it's uh it's about constraints and it's about how do you constraints and it's about how do you kind of build uh the processes and look kind of build uh the processes and look around turn around the con constraints around turn around the con constraints and it is written like a typical a very nice so the goal by Ilio Goldride is nice so the goal by Ilio Goldride is amazing there's a interesting book amazing there's a interesting book called the Toyota way about the Toyota called the Toyota way about the Toyota and its excellence and how Toyota does and its excellence and how Toyota does their manufacturing by Jeff Leica uh their manufacturing by Jeff Leica uh that's amazing book uh Simon Syn's book that's amazing book uh Simon Syn's book start with why I always recommend that start with why I always recommend that key you need to know your why uh at how key you need to know your why uh at how frameworks also Our why is very clear. frameworks also Our why is very clear. We want every entrepreneur to succeed. We want every entrepreneur to succeed. We will do whatever we need to do We will do whatever we need to do whatever they want uh to succeed. We whatever they want uh to succeed. We will bring all those tools all those. So will bring all those tools all those. So we are starting with content but we will we are starting with content but we will come we'll build community and then we come we'll build community and then we will kind of bring in commerce. Uh so will kind of bring in commerce. Uh so all that is going to happen that is our all that is going to happen that is our entire road map. uh I think just I'll entire road map. uh I think just I'll just take little digression and talk just take little digression and talk about my uh vision about what how about my uh vision about what how framework should look like then we'll framework should look like then we'll come back to this books thing again uh I come back to this books thing again uh I feel that how frameworks is like a gym feel that how frameworks is like a gym uh the way you go to a gym and build uh the way you go to a gym and build your body and that's how you basically your body and that's how you basically improve your chances of longevity you improve your chances of longevity you build your muscle you build your build your muscle you build your exercise regime and all that it makes exercise regime and all that it makes you fit that way how frameworks is a gym you fit that way how frameworks is a gym for an entrepreneur or that organization for an entrepreneur or that organization which will make it fit and today if you which will make it fit and today if you see already that there are models like see already that there are models like discovery in South Africa and all that discovery in South Africa and all that where if you do particular exercise if where if you do particular exercise if you do if you are exercising for let's you do if you are exercising for let's say certain time then you get discounts say certain time then you get discounts at health insurance premiums you get at health insurance premiums you get discounts at uh health food places discounts at uh health food places because you are already a fit person and because you are already a fit person and your risk is lower now that way we are your risk is lower now that way we are also looking at building something like also looking at building something like if you are an how frameworks member and if you are an how frameworks member and if you are implementing these things if you are implementing these things then can we look at going to bank and then can we look at going to bank and saying that can I get a 1% lower saying that can I get a 1% lower interest rate for my people wow because interest rate for my people wow because they are like doing so your chances of they are like doing so your chances of losing this money is going to be not losing this money is going to be not going to be there so why don't we do going to be there so why don't we do that can we look at going abroad to that can we look at going abroad to European and American companies and get European and American companies and get joint ventures and saying that these joint ventures and saying that these joint ventures will succeed because joint ventures will succeed because these are deligent uh entrepreneurs who these are deligent uh entrepreneurs who are wanting to work in a structured way are wanting to work in a structured way so we are kind of wanting to be a kind so we are kind of wanting to be a kind of a credit rating. So, so the way this of a credit rating. So, so the way this is this good places to work uh is there is this good places to work uh is there as a stamp. So, if you know this is a as a stamp. So, if you know this is a good places to work then generally the good places to work then generally the working culture is very good. The working culture is very good. The Michelin star of MSM. Yeah. The Michelin Michelin star of MSM. Yeah. The Michelin star of MSME. I think we are looking at star of MSME. I think we are looking at that and I think that's a dream that I that and I think that's a dream that I have uh that's a dream that both me and have uh that's a dream that both me and Bhagwaser have that in five to 10 years Bhagwaser have that in five to 10 years time we should go somewhere there. So time we should go somewhere there. So that is that I came from start with why that is that I came from start with why the another interesting book that we the another interesting book that we should everybody should read is the lean should everybody should read is the lean startup by Eric Rice amazing book then startup by Eric Rice amazing book then there is Benhurovid's book the hearting there is Benhurovid's book the hearting about hearting amazing another very good about hearting amazing another very good book then there is an Indian author Anil book then there is an Indian author Anil Lamba I don't know have you heard of he Lamba I don't know have you heard of he a he's a Pune based uh gentleman writes a he's a Pune based uh gentleman writes about finance amazing books his one book about finance amazing books his one book romancing the balance sheet it's a romancing the balance sheet it's a beautiful book for every small beautiful book for every small entrepreneur must read that book like entrepreneur must read that book like Anil Lamba he has a series of books and Anil Lamba he has a series of books and then he has a pocket version of those then he has a pocket version of those books I have all his I think four or books I have all his I think four or five books full version as well as five books full version as well as pocket version amazing books then pocket version amazing books then connecting the dots by rashmi pansel and connecting the dots by rashmi pansel and 0ero21 by Peter Thail I think these are 0ero21 by Peter Thail I think these are amazing books uh for entrepreneurs all amazing books uh for entrepreneurs all these books I'll give you the links but these books I'll give you the links but then these are great uh when you come to then these are great uh when you come to shows I am you know I'm a sucker for any shows I am you know I'm a sucker for any good podcast but uh so now that you have good podcast but uh so now that you have done podcast once in 15 days uh I get to done podcast once in 15 days uh I get to listen to some other podcast also so I listen to some other podcast also so I listen to something uh called acquired listen to something uh called acquired acquired every company has a story a acquired every company has a story a beautiful uh podcast uh there is a lenis beautiful uh podcast uh there is a lenis podcast which is basically talks about podcast which is basically talks about product management that's a great product management that's a great podcast uh we all know econ talk so the podcast uh we all know econ talk so the way you should read economics in one way you should read economics in one lesson you should also listen to econ lesson you should also listen to econ talk that's amazing podcast work life by talk that's amazing podcast work life by Adam Grant then there is another uh Adam Adam Grant then there is another uh Adam Grant Grant Grant Rethinking is another podcast that he Rethinking is another podcast that he has. The knowledge project by Shen has. The knowledge project by Shen Parish. Uh how do I build how I build Parish. Uh how do I build how I build this? There is a guy called Guy Rise. Uh this? There is a guy called Guy Rise. Uh beautiful podcast. Uh everything is beautiful podcast. Uh everything is everything yours is great. Uh the the everything yours is great. Uh the the diversification strategy how your uh uh diversification strategy how your uh uh uh uh the shareholding should be uh uh the shareholding should be dispersed so that all your eggs are not dispersed so that all your eggs are not in one basket. I think this is a very in one basket. I think this is a very early issue that was there. Besar sent early issue that was there. Besar sent it to his partners and uh said that this it to his partners and uh said that this is something that you must know that you is something that you must know that you cannot have concentrated shareholding. cannot have concentrated shareholding. You need to have a dispersed You need to have a dispersed shareholding that generally increases shareholding that generally increases your this is a family firms a family your this is a family firms that's a family. I'm so glad firms that's a family. I'm so glad Basarad liked it. Yeah, he liked it and Basarad liked it. Yeah, he liked it and he sent it to his all partners. He was he sent it to his all partners. He was very happy about that particular very happy about that particular episode. I will tell AJ about this episode. I will tell AJ about this because this to me is a great sign that because this to me is a great sign that if you know such a man like the episode if you know such a man like the episode like he's an expert who's kind of and like he's an expert who's kind of and this is uh you know when you know that this is uh you know when you know that what you're putting out makes some what you're putting out makes some difference that it goes to people who difference that it goes to people who understand it appreciate it and who are understand it appreciate it and who are like you know who who are uh influenced like you know who who are uh influenced by it. I'll tell you a little story by it. I'll tell you a little story about this quickly. Sorry for the about this quickly. Sorry for the digression again but it just kind of digression again but it just kind of struck me that we went to beer and the struck me that we went to beer and the crew AJ me namsa version of the crew and crew AJ me namsa version of the crew and we said we'll shoot 10 episodes over a we said we'll shoot 10 episodes over a week right and uh um so we had to shoot week right and uh um so we had to shoot 10 episodes because we spent money going 10 episodes because we spent money going there and all that and all of it is from there and all that and all of it is from show budgets so 10 episodes we had to show budgets so 10 episodes we had to shoot. So we started running out of shoot. So we started running out of ideas uh as the week was getting over ideas uh as the week was getting over and then one day um AJ and I were and then one day um AJ and I were meeting some viewers at a cafe and one meeting some viewers at a cafe and one of them asked him key sir what can we do of them asked him key sir what can we do uh about the tourism of be if we really uh about the tourism of be if we really care about it you know if you were a care about it you know if you were a thinker if you were a policy person what thinker if you were a policy person what would you do so AJ started giving him would you do so AJ started giving him advice and I said AJ because you know I advice and I said AJ because you know I have a keen eye for content and I said have a keen eye for content and I said AJ this is content we'll do an episode AJ this is content we'll do an episode so we did an episode right so it's a so we did an episode right so it's a completely casual episode on Himachel completely casual episode on Himachel tourism Since that time, different tourism Since that time, different people have got in touch with him about people have got in touch with him about the episode, including two IS officers the episode, including two IS officers in two different cities which are not in two different cities which are not even in Himachel and they have said we even in Himachel and they have said we want to implement your ideas. Can we want to implement your ideas. Can we have a conversation with you? And have a conversation with you? And they've had a conversation with AJ and they've had a conversation with AJ and they're actually implementing the ideas they're actually implementing the ideas he spoke about in that episode. Two is he spoke about in that episode. Two is officers who are looking after whatever officers who are looking after whatever relevant parts of uh uh two different relevant parts of uh uh two different cities. Much respect for both of them. cities. Much respect for both of them. Much respect. Much respect for both of Much respect. Much respect for both of them for being open to learning and also them for being open to learning and also for Rajay for casually he's throwing off for Rajay for casually he's throwing off these ideas. I tell him let's make it an these ideas. I tell him let's make it an episode we make it an episode and uh to episode we make it an episode and uh to have this kind of an impact and the have this kind of an impact and the whole thing is if that was a fortnightly whole thing is if that was a fortnightly show that episode would not exist. Yeah show that episode would not exist. Yeah it's a weekly show we are under the it's a weekly show we are under the pressure. So we do what appears to be a pressure. So we do what appears to be a throwaway idea and suddenly you find it throwaway idea and suddenly you find it is impactful and which is why I say that is impactful and which is why I say that volume is volume is volume is important. You'll never know what comes important. You'll never know what comes from it. But I'm sorry to go back to from it. But I'm sorry to go back to her. So great. So everything is her. So great. So everything is everything was something HBR podcast everything was something HBR podcast idea cast is very good. Uh then idea cast is very good. Uh then rethinking by Adam Grant again very rethinking by Adam Grant again very good. Uh deep questions by Kipot. Uh good. Uh deep questions by Kipot. Uh very good podcast. So these are all my I very good podcast. So these are all my I think I these are my go-to podcast when think I these are my go-to podcast when seen unseen is not happening. seen unseen is not happening. I'm sorry I married fortnightly but it I'm sorry I married fortnightly but it is what it is. Uh yes Narin Narin. So is what it is. Uh yes Narin Narin. So almost everything that I was going to almost everything that I was going to recommend Sudhir jumped the gun and what recommend Sudhir jumped the gun and what a list of recommendations. One two a list of recommendations. One two things I will add. One uh one is Daresh things I will add. One uh one is Daresh Patel's awesome podcast. He mostly talks Patel's awesome podcast. He mostly talks about AI but he talks about a lot of about AI but he talks about a lot of things. I just love that uh you know his things. I just love that uh you know his he he has a different way of saying and he he has a different way of saying and is he's excellent at uh what he does. is he's excellent at uh what he does. and then very recently discovered this and then very recently discovered this lady named Hannah Fry. She's a lady named Hannah Fry. She's a mathematician whose uh British lady mathematician whose uh British lady whose uh mission is to popularize whose uh mission is to popularize mathematics but she has very charming mathematics but she has very charming and very interesting. So, I just saw a and very interesting. So, I just saw a few shorts and uh just like yesterday few shorts and uh just like yesterday and uh now I'm I'm really um intrigued and uh now I'm I'm really um intrigued and I want to listen to more of Hannah and I want to listen to more of Hannah Fry. But do check out Hannah Fry. Lovely Fry. But do check out Hannah Fry. Lovely lovely string of little uh YouTube lovely string of little uh YouTube videos. Yeah, can't wait to check out videos. Yeah, can't wait to check out everything that you mentioned. I'll also everything that you mentioned. I'll also give a recommendation. Can I give a give a recommendation. Can I give a recommendation? There's a site called recommendation? There's a site called How Frameworks if you heard of it. And I How Frameworks if you heard of it. And I I have a discount code for it which is I have a discount code for it which is seen unseen. So kindly go out there and seen unseen. So kindly go out there and uh uh get your the discount. It's an uh uh get your the discount. It's an awesome site. Look for me I you know awesome site. Look for me I you know what the biggest kind of drug in the what the biggest kind of drug in the world for me what really gets my world for me what really gets my dopamine going and makes me feel alive dopamine going and makes me feel alive is just learning you know I keep quoting is just learning you know I keep quoting Bob Dylan these days he not busy being Bob Dylan these days he not busy being born is busy dying right so new ideas born is busy dying right so new ideas new frameworks new ways to think about new frameworks new ways to think about the world that is very much the whole the world that is very much the whole game. So uh even though it seems game. So uh even though it seems redundant because it will obviously be redundant because it will obviously be successful but I wish you all success in successful but I wish you all success in this uh end of a sudd and uh yeah and this uh end of a sudd and uh yeah and hopefully one day you can come back and hopefully one day you can come back and talk about the grand success of this talk about the grand success of this venture and what you are doing with your venture and what you are doing with your millions or billions or and actually millions or billions or and actually that's not even your freaking AM you that's not even your freaking AM you just want to transform uh uh this whole just want to transform uh uh this whole uh sector in India as it were and I'm uh sector in India as it were and I'm sure you'll succeed. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. sure you'll succeed. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And I think uh the statistics very And I think uh the statistics very clearly says that key if MSMES are clearly says that key if MSMES are around 38 to 40% and if you can bring at around 38 to 40% and if you can bring at least couple of percentage difference least couple of percentage difference the so many million people will come out the so many million people will come out of poverty and uh that's going to be the of poverty and uh that's going to be the nobel work that we will really really be nobel work that we will really really be doing. Uh the success will happen that doing. Uh the success will happen that we know but then the ultimate unseen we know but then the ultimate unseen effect of this particular activity is effect of this particular activity is going to be immense and that's going to going to be immense and that's going to be the real game changer. Firms are the be the real game changer. Firms are the whole story. whole story. Firms are the whole story. And I also think that Narin, there is And I also think that Narin, there is still one more business idea in you, still one more business idea in you, which is how to look so handsome and fit which is how to look so handsome and fit at 60. For my listeners, Narin recently at 60. For my listeners, Narin recently turned 60. Sudir and I were two of the turned 60. Sudir and I were two of the fortunate people invited to his 60th fortunate people invited to his 60th birthday party. And you're looking damn birthday party. And you're looking damn good today, boss. And you're you're like good today, boss. And you're you're like so fit. And what's going on, boss? I do so fit. And what's going on, boss? I do something so incremental, right? So something so incremental, right? So compound the power of compounding. I compound the power of compounding. I joined this online yoga course and I do joined this online yoga course and I do it every single morning. Wow. Which one it every single morning. Wow. Which one is it? It's called Habild. H A B U I L is it? It's called Habild. H A B U I L D. Wow. And it's very nice. I urge D. Wow. And it's very nice. I urge everyone to check it out. It looks everyone to check it out. It looks extremely loo but it's quite uh it takes extremely loo but it's quite uh it takes quite the people listening to this was quite the people listening to this was so happy till this moment you said they so happy till this moment you said they looked extremely Lulu. looked extremely Lulu. So Sheila joined it first, right? And So Sheila joined it first, right? And she would do it in the morning and I she would do it in the morning and I would be sort of in my bed and she would would be sort of in my bed and she would look so ridiculous moving arms and legs look so ridiculous moving arms and legs like that. And then one day for no like that. And then one day for no specific reason I think uh I had nothing specific reason I think uh I had nothing better to do that morning. So I said better to do that morning. So I said I'll join two and I was hooked. And uh I I'll join two and I was hooked. And uh I do it I've never in 60 years been able do it I've never in 60 years been able to touch my own toes without bending my to touch my own toes without bending my legs which I can do now. Immensely proud legs which I can do now. Immensely proud of it. And if I can touch my own uh of it. And if I can touch my own uh toes, whose toes can I not touch in the toes, whose toes can I not touch in the future? future? future? So that's I will take a long time to So that's I will take a long time to power strat, but you have gorgeous toes, power strat, but you have gorgeous toes, so I can understand why you would want so I can understand why you would want to uh touch them. Thank you both for um to uh touch them. Thank you both for um your Thank you for having me. Thank you your Thank you for having me. Thank you so much. Yeah, it been a lovely so much. Yeah, it been a lovely conversation. Thanks. If you enjoyed listening to this If you enjoyed listening to this episode, check out the show notes. enter episode, check out the show notes. enter rabbit holes at will. Do sign up at how rabbit holes at will. Do sign up at how frameworks if it interests you and even frameworks if it interests you and even if you don't have a firm just the if you don't have a firm just the frameworks are fascinating and you know frameworks are fascinating and you know it added a lot of value to me. I enjoyed it added a lot of value to me. I enjoyed it thoroughly. So do explore it. Uh you it thoroughly. So do explore it. Uh you can sign up for it using the discount can sign up for it using the discount code seen unseen. So check that out. You code seen unseen. So check that out. You can follow Sudhir on Twitter at Sudhis can follow Sudhir on Twitter at Sudhis Sanob. You can follow Narin at shinoi n. Sanob. You can follow Narin at shinoi n. You can follow me on Twitter at You can follow me on Twitter at ammitwarma ammitwarma ammitwarma amitba. You can browse past episodes of amitba. You can browse past episodes of the scene and the unseen at seen unseen. the scene and the unseen at seen unseen. in and every podcast app of your choice. in and every podcast app of your choice. Thank you for listening. Did you enjoy this episode of listening. Did you enjoy this episode of The Scene and the Unseen? If so, would The Scene and the Unseen? If so, would you like to support the production of you like to support the production of the show? You can go over to seen the show? You can go over to seen ununseene.in/support and contribute any ununseene.in/support and contribute any amount you like to keep this podcast amount you like to keep this podcast alive and kicking. Thank you. alive and kicking. Thank you.