================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: Phs20PuACys
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Phs20PuACys
TITLE: Hindutva Politics in the Diaspora
CHANNEL: Carnegie Endowment
PUBLISHED: 2025-06-25
DURATION: 46m 54s
VIEWS: 1,581
LIKES: 24
COMMENTS: 18
TAGS: #foreign policy, #carnegie endowment

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
How and why did Hindu nationalism become popular among India’s diaspora after India’s independence in 1947? This is the central question of Hindu Nationalism in the Indian Diaspora: Transnational Politics and British Multiculturalism, a 2023 book by the historian Edward Anderson.

The book interrogates the distinctive resonance Hindutva ideology has overseas, and the multiple ways in which the diaspora engages with British politics and society, while sustaining connections back home in India.

Anderson is assistant professor in History at Northumbria University in Newcastle. He was previously the Smuts Research Fellow in Commonwealth Studies at the University of Cambridge, where he obtained a PhD in History.

Anderson joins Milan on the show this week to discuss the trajectory of Indian migration to Britain, the founding of the first overseas Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) shakha, and the Emergency’s impact amongst the diaspora. Plus, the two discuss the role of the diaspora in fund
... [truncated]

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 157
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: youtube-transcript-api
Language: en
Word count: 7,827

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
unabashed. The most unpredictable becomes a headline. The most volatile, outrageous behavior, unsubstantiated narratives, a battle of personalities. [Music] Welcome to Grantamasha, a co-production of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and the Hindustan Times. I'm your host Milan Vanov. How and why did Hindu nationalism become popular among India's diaspora after India's independence in 1947? This is the central question of Hindu nationalism in the Indian diaspora, transnational politics and British multiculturalism, a 2023 book by the historian Edward Anderson. The book interrogates the distinctive resonance Hindutva ideology has overseas and the multiple ways in which the diaspora engages with British politics and society while also sustaining connections back home. Edward is assistant professor of history at North Umbrea University in Newcastle. He was previously the Smutz Research Fellow in Commonwealth Studies at the University of Cambridge where he obtained his PhD in history to talk more about his book and the unique role that the diaspora plays abroad. Ed joins me on the show for the very first time. Ed, congrats on the book and so great to have you on the show. Thanks very much. It's lovely to talk to you. So Ed, uh, you know, you and I have been in touch for some time. Um, I I I as I was discussing before we joined, I I sort of skimmed your book when I I first got a copy of it, but uh just had the chance to kind of go through it uh cover to cover. And it's really a fascinating, I think, pretty unique look at how the diaspora functions, particularly as it relates to kind of, you know, politics and developments back home. Um, you know, the the central question that you ask, if I could kind of boil it down, is, you know, why did Hindu nationalism become so popular and influential among the diaspora, particularly after the kind of independence moment? Now, most of this conversation is going to be spent getting into the answers to that question, but I just want to stick with the question itself for a moment. You know, tell us a little bit about what inspired you to dig into this question about the diaspora. Um well I lived uh and studied actually in India for uh a few years after my first undergraduate degree. Um and I just found the history and the culture and the politics of of the place absolutely fascinating. It's a you know it's an amazing part of the world and I love it very dearly. Um and this was actually quite a long time before the 2014 uh pivotal election and in fact the BJP and the Hindu nationalist movement more broadly were in a very different uh position at this time. In fact, India itself was very different uh in many senses to how it is today. Um and at this point in time I think you know I was aware of course of a very substantial uh Indian diaspora um and you know the enormous influence of this diaspora and Indian culture on Britain where I uh come from um and I was also at this point interested in Hindu nationalism and in you know other expressions of of right-wing ethnic nationalist politics and so it was when I realized that those two kind of intersected that I became very curious Um indeed um and I think you know to begin with I was struck by a couple of tensions or even paradoxes that are quite uh commonly raised. Um I mean the first and most obvious one is you know why is it that people who have chosen to move abroad uh or whose origins to India are separated by generations. Why is it that um these people are sometimes the most staunchly patriotic or even chauvinistic claiming to be the proudest Indians? This is a quite classic tension of long-distance nationalism um as posited by Benedict Anderson. Um and the second tension uh that that people have kind of raised which you know is a bit more complicated is why would people support uh an indigenous majoritarian ideology uh applied to one country whilst negotiating recognition and minority rights in another. Um, so a lot of people have suggested that this is a sort of absurd or paradoxical situation, but I was really keen to try and delve into these questions a bit more deeply. Um, and to really try and make sense about why it's developed uh in popularity and influence um from the second half of the 20th century and what it is about this um ideology that that appeals to to Indians outside living outside India. So, you know, Ed, I was struck by some of the data that you compile in your book, and I just want to give our listeners kind of one mini snapshot. In 1971, uh, you write that Britain was home to about 140,000 or so Hindus and just two temples. And if you fast forward to 2021, there were more than a million Hindus and 187 temples, right? So pretty astonishing growth over uh this this five decade period for a lay person. How would you characterize the kind of successive waves of Indian migration to Britain after independence? That growth uh over the second half of the 20th century is certainly striking and and the the stats that you mentioned uh illustrate that. But you know the first point to make is that Indian migration to Britain long predates independence. Of course, Britain uh has had a colonial relationship with India since the very beginning of the 17th century and throughout you know the period of of British imperial rule over India there were people coming in the other direction. Um but something does change um significantly uh in the wake of decolonization. Um it's a complex story but there are two kind of particularly significant moments. one is in 1948 and Britain at this point passes the British Nationality Act. Uh and this creates a new legal status uh of a citizen of the United Kingdom and colonies. Uh and essentially the consequence is that all citizens of the British Empire and the Commonwealth uh could move to and work freely in the UK. Uh and this is you know almost almost a quarter of the world's population. um you know this this was probably an unintended uh consequence um and and obviously the kind of politics of that still reverberate to this day but it also suited Britain because Britain was trying to rebuild uh following the second world war there were labor shortages uh the Labor government was trying to put together the welfare state 1948 also sees the establishment of the NHS uh and so this gives rise to uh you know a period of of mass migration to Britain um initially with the Wind Rush era uh of of that kind of generation of Caribbean migrants to Britain in from the late 40s onwards and then from the 50s uh and after that um many many many people move from South Asia uh to Britain um and the other the other thing that's happening at the same time of course is uh uh you know in the wake of decolonization is partition uh this is you know a period of massive rupture dislocation um and a lot of people are looking to start a new life for themselves outside the Indian subcontinent and so we see you know in that early period a significant number of people moving from Punjab in particular and Bengal as well over to the west and to Britain um and you know that was facilitated by the law that I just mentioned. The US on the other hand uh you know was much more restrictive until the 1960s um up until which point there were kind of uh national origin bars and quotas and so on. So yeah, from the 50s and 60s there's there's a significant immigration of of Indians to Britain. Um, and then there's another big shift that takes place uh in the sort of late 60s and early 70s when a very substantial number of people uh of of Indian origin uh move uh to to the UK and other parts of the world from East Africa uh during this kind of uh wave of decolonization in Africa um or and after it. um and and many people are kind of um coerced out of of of the countries in which they live in East Africa, places like Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda and in the case of Uganda more than coerced they're forced to leave um in 1972. So that's another you know big big sort of moment uh in in the kind of changing demography of the UK. I suppose you know one of the central claims of the book is that global Hindutva Hindu nationalism is often the product of kind of two things going on simultaneously right you have strategies of domestic expansion in which kind of diaspora groups are are are are growing are building um are are expanding but you also have sustained coordination and support from India and I feel like you know the the the first story is a little bit more obvious to us than the second one and I'm wondering if you could just kind of offer just a brief sketch of how diaspora activities in Britain are coordinated from afar particularly when you're looking at groups that are part of the kind of global Hindu movement. This is a a kind of much debated uh question and depending on who you ask you'll get rather different answers. Um so on the one hand certain people suggest that Hinduta or Hindu nationalist groups outside India are entirely organic. They they are grassroots. Um on the other hand uh some people suggest that um Hindu nationalism is is a kind of export from India. It's it's something that's entirely coordinated or supplanted. um and that that Hindu nationalist groups are just sort of overseas wings of of the same organization. The truth, you know, as is often the case in these sorts of issues is is a bit murkier, a bit more nebulous, somewhere in between. Um so yeah, I do try and explore the extent to which Hindu outside India is is coordinated. I mean I think the first point I should make is that I certainly don't suggest that all diasporic infer is the product of coordination and actually it's clear that a lot of it does occur in kind of organic ways. Um it's often dependent on proactive and and very committed individuals who are doing a lot of the kind of heavy lifting and and organizing of a wide range of groups. And actually certain individuals um are often involved in multiple organizations and these groups often end up giving the impression of being actually more dynamic and maybe more popular than they really are. Um so so these kind of key players are often very important. Um so so there is a sort of degree of separateness and actually the hindut groups themselves are often quite keen to emphasize the separateness. Um and this may be strategic. I mean, it's worth remembering that a lot of overseas groups are registered as charities or nonprofits. Um, uh, and you know, generally speaking, I'm I'm a little bit, uh, you know, it's it's it's hard to get to the bottom of that exactly, but certainly, you know, I mentioned earlier that some sort of refer to these groups as as simply being kind of exports or transplanted, and I think that that doesn't quite capture how dynamic or syncretic they can be. Um that being said uh there are clear layers and structures of coordination and influence without question. So the RSS for instance they have an office called the visa vag which is concerned specifically with the activities of the sun and its members um outside the the of India in the diaspora. The same is the case for other groups. Um, another form of influence would be through individuals being sort of sent abroad. You have procharaks, full-time workers um of the RSS that are kind of coordinating activities in various parts of the world. Um, you know, and also another sort of maybe a less sort of systematic thing might be that you various figures in the Hindu nationalist movement frequently conduct overseas tours. I mean, of course, politicians are usually the most uh high-profile and conspicuous um aspects of that, but we also have other s leaders, activists, uh preachers, and all sorts of others uh that that travel overseas and and help that sort of coordination as it were. Um and then another form of coordination, another layer to that coordination would be people going in the other direction. So people that are based in the US, based in Britain, based in Australia, wherever it might be, returning to India and taking part in or in events and camps for example. Um so that's another way in which influence can can can be sort of transmitted. Um of course travel isn't required. you know, digital technologies today mean that people can be influenced and coordinated uh, you know, instantly and um, you know, all the time really. Um, that being said, you know, I've sort of one other kind of final point I guess a rather academic point to make is that, you know, it's not always helpful to think necessarily just about binaries of India versus diaspora. And when you start thinking about coordination from the homeland, there is that kind of one one might end up thinking about sort of the binary of of India versus diaspora, but actually I think it's useful to think in a much more sort of transnational uh way about these these sorts of ideologies and movement. So I I want to kind of circle back uh Ed to to something that you said earlier when you were kind of describing the successive waves of uh Indian migration to to Great Britain. Um one of the very interesting facts you you point out in your book is that the very first official Shaka which is of course these critical kind of hubs of RSS activity. The very first RSS overseas shaka was set up in January of 1947 in Nairobi, Kenya of all places. Um, and you know, from a British perspective, East African immigration was an important catalyst for the growth of diaspora organizations, especially Hindu nationalist groups. And I wonder if we could just pause there for a second and have you tell us, you know, what's the kind of nature of the nexus between Hindutva and East Africa? Why did that particular channel emerge as such a powerful one? Yes, it's an it's an interesting interesting fact that I think perhaps quite a lot of people aren't aware of. Um I suppose to answer this question it might be worth just giving a little bit of sort of historical context. So um there has been an Asian population, a South Asian population that is uh in East Africa and since really the well in in a significant on on a significant scale since the end of the 19th century and at this point East Africa or or parts of East Africa were were part of the British Empire particularly the countries of Uganda uh Tanzania and Kenya. And then from the end of the 19th century and the beginning of the 20th century, the British were quite keen to encourage migration of Indians over to to to East Africa to participate in various aspects of the economy. they were provided with certain positions even in the administration, the bureaucracy uh and also certain sort of trading privileges that were denied to the African population and also that they they were also brought in for for the various sort of skills um uh that that they possessed including uh uh contributing towards the construction of the railway in Uganda. Um so there's this growing East African uh Asian population across the whole of the 20th century. Um and you know this is a population that remain quite closely connected to to uh uh uh India. Um there's travel uh over the ocean uh back to to India. Um there is also you know quite a sort of segregated community as well. Um quite tight-knit communities often quite kind of tight-knit in terms of their own sort of um social makeup. um particularly large numbers of of of people immigrating there from Gujarat for example um and there's this desire to remain connected um and and you know they had their own schools they had their own community groups and so that's the kind of context under which um the first Shaka of the RSS is established um and there's this almost sort of apocryphal or legendary story of it being set up uh partly through this kind of chance meeting that takes place on a ship traveling over to to Kenya. Um and then yeah in the mid 1940s uh this first chaka is established and and from that point onwards uh it grows quite quite sort of quickly. Um lots and lots of of people from you know particularly Gujarati Hindu communities in East Africa uh are are affiliated with with um shakers. their children are involved. Um it's a way of kind of you know socializing. Um they they obviously do sort of recreational activities, sporting activities but also you know maintaining that that cultural uh sort of um uh connection as well. And then uh the the the sort of pivotal moment for for global hinder in a sense is is comes comes in the 60s and 70s when you know these countries have gained independence and and are quite eager uh for for the Asian population to leave or actually sort of in the case of of Idiamin are forcibly expelling the Asian population. And so a lot of these groups and networks that are have been established in East Africa are then taken with them to to Britain and to other parts of the world as well. Um and you know that there's we can see very clearly in the makeup of a lot of Hindu nationalist groups you know particularly in the sort of second half of the 20th century I think things have changed to some extent but certainly a lot of those groups initially almost entirely um East African Asian in in makeup. uh you know one of the things that you say about the Shaka is that it has been the chief means of growth of organization activity ideological inculcation uh and training for the S and you know it kind of brought to mind this question about you know how I guess weather and how shakas in Great Britain differ uh with their counterparts in the motherland. I mean what what have you observed during the course of your research? So the answer to that question I suppose is that in in certain senses they they are very very close um and and the the fact that they are close is is of importance to the people that participate in them. It is a a way of connecting um with with one's home culture, one home country. Um so you know certain aspects of the terminology certain sort of uh episodes or um uh sort of parts of of the group meetings are are identical. A lot of the kind of names of the the office holders in the institution are the same. There's there's the same sort of flag ceremony at the beginning. Um so there are lots of lot and and some of the games that they play for example will be the same. um the sorts of conversations topics they might have might be similar as well. But you know there are some quite key differences as well um that that that I mean one one would be the setting in which they take place. You know this is not taking place broadly speaking kind of outdoors on patches of ground you know across the country as they might do in in India. These are taking place in kind of community centers or halls or even schools in Britain. they tend to happen less frequently, maybe only once a week as opposed to more regular daily shakers. Um the other difference of is you know quite a noticeable difference is what people are wearing. Um you know when when I first started my research the the you know the RSS uniform of India was famous for its um khaki shorts and and white shirts whereas uh overseas that that that wouldn't you know be the case. people would um uh that was get adapted I think to make it a little bit more appealing perhaps and some of the games are also different. So uh you know people might play football and so on in Ashaka which definitely would not have taken place in India. In fact some of the sort of founding figures of the the the RSS were were very very much against sort of western sports like like football and even cricket as well. Um, so there are some quite key differences there. And I think one final thing that's worth mentioning is is a kind of pedagogical difference. So, um, it's it's they're often spaces in which people are learning about a culture that they're not being brought up in. And that's often why maybe parents would be keen to send their kids to these groups because they're being acculturated in a particular uh you know Hindu a particular expression of Hindu culture that that isn't available to them in in their kind of everyday lives. Whereas of course a shaka in India is operating in a in a in a context in which that culture surrounds the people that attend it. Hey Granthamasha listeners, thanks for listening to the podcast. Putting this show together each week is a labor of love, but it takes a lot of work to put out a great show every week. If you'd like to support the work we do at Granthamasha, please visit cip.org/donate. Don't forget to subscribe to us on Apple Podcast, Google Podcast, Spotify, or on your favorite podcasting platform, so you'll be the first to know when a new episode rolls out. I want to kind of bring us now to this kind of pivotal moment um and it's a moment that I talked about uh a couple weeks on the show uh with another historian Shri Natharan uh his new book on Indra Gandhi which is the emergency you know one of the things you point out in your book Ed is that the literature on Hindu nationalism's engagement with the diaspora largely dwells on the period since the 1980s so you know 1980s up until the present But you argue in your book pretty persuasively that the emergency was actually a very important inflection point in part because it was a transformative movement for the Hindu nationalist uh movement more generally and I'm wondering if you could just kind of zero in uh a bit on you know how was the emergencies impact felt specifically among the diaspora. The diaspora certainly were significantly impacted by the emergency. Uh it was a point of time that was very important to them in many different ways. Um obviously by this point there's a kind of critical mass of of Indian migrants overseas um particularly in Britain but also uh the diaspora in America is growing at this point as well and various other parts of the world too. Um and there's a couple of reasons why the diaspora felt particularly sort of uh uh affected by the emergency. Um one is that um this was a period of time in which various different group organizations political rivals to Indira Gandhi were being suppressed and even banned in India including uh the RSS and the Jung Sun. And as I mentioned earlier, the Hindu nationalist groups um had started to be established uh in various parts of the Indian diaspora at this point. And so these groups were able to kind of respond to the fact that they had been banned uh in India. And they they they saw themselves as having an important role in which they could uh lobby in which they could um sort of express concern in a way that people in India might not have been able to at this point in time. And this was also supported by uh people moving around as well. So there was a number of of influential people uh you know Hindu nationalists and people on the left as well um who were targeted during the emergency that that managed to uh get out of India and would travel around groups in the diaspora uh and and sort of wider wider sort of communities of people trying to kind of raise awareness of the the sort of um the the the the awful things that were happening during the emergency and the the the sharp decline of democracy uh that had been taking place. Um so the the the diaspora sort of saw this as as a moment when or at least many people did when they could actually uh sort of have a positive impact uh on India and support people who were in India living under what they considered to be a form of dictatorship. You know, one of the people who pops up in this section of the book is none other than Narendra Modi uh who uh is quoted in your book as referring to the emergency as providing him with a wonderful opportunity quote unquote. Um you know this is a bit of an aside but but but it is kind of intriguing. What what would we know about Modi's influence and interactions uh during this period of the emergency? Yes. So it's obviously quite striking that Modi does refer to this um as a wonderful opportunity. Um but actually that's in keeping with a lot of people from the BJP and the uh Hindu nationalist movement more broadly. Um, you know, the the emergency is a period uh which is invoked very often by by these sorts of Congress opponents uh as as a moment where they're on the right side of history as as resisting uh the kind of dictatorship of of Indira Gandhi as they would frame it. Um and and sort of standing up and and rescuing India's democracy from from a period of of considerable uh decline. um where it was really in peril for lots of reasons. Of course, you know, this was a period of authoritarianism of many people being incarcerated uh without without trial or even charged. Um it was a period in which numerous uh organizations were banned and uh the press were were were very much restricted um and and freedom of expression was was restricted in broader terms as well. So these were certainly dark days for for Indian democracy. Um and it's a point in time uh in which the RSS and the Jan Sun, the kind of precursor to the BJP were were amongst those groups that were banned. But there were also you know communists and other groups on the left that were also targeted by Indira Gandhi during this period. Um so what was uh Narendra Modi involved in? Well, you know, what we know about this is from a few things he's written and said uh and also a book uh that he published initially in in Gujarati uh about Gujarat during the emergency. And in this he prescribes his his sort of experiences. He is at this point a prarak a full-time worker of the RSS I believe with the ABVP. And so like other members of the RSS he's going underground to avoid arrest. uh and one of the roles that he describes in the the book um is involved with coordinating activism uh coordinating sort of contact rather with with people outside of India including uh the the political leader um Makrand Desai who is in England at this point um and he he described and there's a few letters um pertaining to this sort of getting uh information out of India where press freedom is heavily restricted. So getting information out of India that could be circulated um amongst members of the the the diaspora particularly the Gujarati diaspora in Britain and elsewhere and then those members of the diaspora could attempt to uh uh sort of contact journalists to try and spread the word about about all of the uh uh all of the kind of excesses of Indira Gandhi at this time um and the decline in democracy. Um and then some of those stories would then be kind of compiled into these sort of DIY publications which would then be sent back uh back to India and then circulated uh around India. So this is you know one of the the the ways in which Modi says that he was mobilizing resistance to the emergency during this period. Um and you know this this follows as I said a fairly common narrative. This is something that that people are quite eager to to talk about. Whenever you have a a kind of anniversary um a kind of commemoration of the emergency on particular sort of anniversaries, it is often uh members of the BJP that are that are quite uh vocal in in talking about it because it's a period in which they see themselves as being on on the right side of history of of kind of saving uh India's uh democracy from from this very dark period um ushered in by a suspension of democracy from uh by Indira Gandhi just kind of trying to tie a few strands together here. You know, one of the points that you make in the book is that look, there were many foreign centers of S activism where you saw a kind of deeply embedded Hindu nationalist kind of ethos thrive in the diaspora. But you said of all of those foreign centers of such activism, Britain was arguably the most important. And and I was struck by that because I think a lot of us today, maybe it's because I'm an American, you know, we tend to kind of have our own biases, tend to think of sung activism being so prevalent in America, but um but but you you make the case actually that Great Britain in some sense um has been a as more of a hub. I mean, tell us a little bit about, you know, how you think about that particular contrast. Sure. Um, I mean, of course, I' I'd hate to suggest that America isn't the center of the world. Uh, but, um, I suppose, um, I suppose the point that I was making was really a historical one. Um, so the S itself, the RSS, um, was established in Britain more than two decades before any branches emerged in the US. um you know actually it was only that kind of cap on on Indian migrants that that was lifted cap on Indian migrants to the US that is that was lifted around the time that the sun was established in Britain by which point there's a very substantial Indian population in in the UK so you know America things are only really getting started in terms of an Indian diaspora over there so so yeah institutionally America is is somewhat behind um Britain in that respect and obviously there are historical connections between Britain and and uh and India um which account for kind of more influence um and a kind of closer sort of set of links as well. Um I think you know in the present day um a claim could probably be made the other way around. I mean there are certainly more shakers in in the US. There's a much bigger uh Indian diaspora in in the US than there is um in in in the UK um at least you know numerically speaking. I mean as a percentage of the population it's actually not so substantial. Um and obviously you know the the the Indian diaspora in America is is distinctive. um you know they are considered influential partly due to you know significant financial clout and and more recently roles in politics and other important areas and you know I think you know for India certainly that US relationship is considered more consequential. So the the kind of the the the aspect of lobbying, the aspect of of of uh of trying to you know the advocacy role that that Indians can play on behalf of the BJP and Indian nationalist groups in America is more important I suppose than than than in Britain or in any other country for that matter. Um but yeah the point the point I suppose I was making in the book was that historically speaking um certainly in the 60s and 70s um Britain is is more important um to the Hindu nationalist movement um than America I would say you know I mean this leads us to the kind of broader question of kind of you know uh transnationalism and global hindutva um yeah I was really struck by your statement and it comes up in one or two places that the significance of the Indian diaspora to the Hindu nationalist movement in India is often times more symbolic than material for so for instance you know a lot of people like to talk about the fundraising that these entities do at the time of elections or otherwise um through the RSS and its overseas affiliates um and you know you come away with that saying you know that that might be there but it but it's probably been exaggerated um and that funding and financial flows are probably not the kind of preeminent or most important aspect of this relationship. I wonder if you could just kind of elaborate on that for us. Sure. So I think yeah I mean I think I would still support that idea that that the sort of symbolic rather than material significance of diasporic support is is greater. Um you know there has been attention uh and interest and significant concern over over fundraising uh taking place for Hinduta groups, s groups, charities related to to Hindu nationalist sort of ideologies um and political funding from overseas as well and and this forms you know up until relatively recently a significant proportion of of things that had been written. In fact, still today really a significant proportion of things that have been written about um Hindu nationalism come from a kind of activist perspective an anti-hindut perspective trying to sort of highlight the um the perceived um threat and and uh sort of concerns around around Hindu nationalism outside India. Um so a lot of that has focused on fundraising. Um that being said, you know, it's it's a it's often quite a difficult thing to quantify. Um particularly when it comes to, as you know, political funding, it's very hard to actually um you know, get to the bottom of things and actually figure out how much funding is coming from overseas. The other point to make and this might seem like an obvious one but I mean there's a lot of money I mean particularly over the last in the last few decades there's a lot of money in India and there are a lot of people in India and so in terms of like an actual contribution to the running costs of various organizations or political parties you know the lion's share of that is going to going to be achievable in India particularly if you look at the kind of support that the BJP got from from very wealthy people in recent years as well. So in that sense, you know, I don't know whether I think that any argument that suggests that that that Hinduta groups are kind of reliant on funding from overseas, I I can't really see there being a strong case for that. However, having the kind of symbolic support from overseas is clearly important. um you know packing out stadiums seeing uh you know tens of thousands of members of the Indian diaspora uh supporting the BJP or maybe their roles in supporting certain policies um or things like let's say the the Ram temple in Iayodia supporting that in a in a digital space that can be quite influential providing a kind of advocacy role and it's also symbolically important for the diaspora itself to feel like they're part of something there. Um that's definitely influential. I mentioned also packing out sort of stadia for uh yeah like rallies. Um obviously the the ones that Modi has presided over in places like Madison Square Garden in that football stadium I think in Texas in stadiums in in uh in Australia and Wembley Stadium in the UK uh in 2015 as well. you know, these are are kind of, you know, probably the most um visually arresting uh expressions of Hindu nationalism overseas. Um the people that are participating in this are creating quite powerful images to be used back in India. They're probably not voters. I mean, very few members of the Indian diaspora vote. Those that have taken the citizenship of other countries, of course, can't vote. But even those that that remain Indian citizens, NRIs um you know it's it's very difficult you know logistically for for those people to actually use their vote. So I think rather than you know using that vote at the ballot box there is a kind of symbolic way in which they can provide influence which perhaps is is more substantial more great greater in influence than than that one vote might be. You know towards the end of the book you write that Hindu nationalism particularly again in the diaspora has has really kind of outgrown the institutional and ideological boundaries of the s and when pointing to this fact um you also talk about the emergence of something called neo hindutva which was a new term for me I'm wondering if you could just help define what neohhindutva is and and you know maybe just give us a sense of organizations organizations which kind of exist beyond the sun which have become very influential uh in their own right but technically kind of outside of that traditional sort of RSS ecosystem. Yeah. I mean much of our conversation today is is focused on on the sun. Um and you know in many ways you know they are well in in many ways they are very much at the very center of of the ideology and the the the movement um that that that we're speaking about. Um but there certainly have been a wide range of other institutions that can be connected to Hindu nationalism but perhaps don't have that obvious um or or sort of explicitly stated institutional connection to the S parava um but but still a very much ideologically aligned with with Hindutva and that's something that I've tried to understand through this uh idea of neohinduta which I think I first wrote about around a decade ago and and I think that this is something that's that's that's particularly interesting in the diaspora where we see groups uh that that sort of set themselves apart from the Sun particularly in a kind of multicultural context that frame themselves as community representatives um that maybe frame themselves in in much less political terms that that are able to kind of operate using the language of multiculturalism as representative ives of the community um and and that that perhaps are kind of framing themselves as much less political but in fact beneath the surface what we can identify there is some key tropes of of Hindut ideology and so you know in that sense Hindu nationalism has really kind of outgrown these institutional boundaries I mean I I said earlier you know we've been speaking about the sun for a long time it's very interesting that shakers of the sun exist in America and in Britain. But you know in terms of of of the number of the the number of of of people that are actually attending these it's a it's a tiny fraction of of the Indian diaspora as a whole. So what I'm interested in I suppose is is thinking more broadly about about the way in which the ideology has has very much outgrown has has sort of um permeated much more widely into into the diaspora beyond these uh sort of conventional uh institutional structures. You know Ed just just one final point before we end. I mean you know one of the things you point out in the book is that you know there have been a lot of observers out there who have argued that look the most passionate Hindu nationalist advocates that one finds say in a place like Britain are newer migrants who arrive in recent times you know I guess on the assumption that presumption I should say that these are people who have been exposed to kind of hegemonic Hindu nationalism in the kind of post204 era under Narendra Modi Um is this something that you observed yourself uh when you kind of look out? I mean I know obviously this is something that's very difficult to collect data on but I was wondering impressionistically um do you see this correlation between kind of newer migrants those who may have come to Britain say in the last 10 or 15 years and a kind of uh intensity of feeling towards the Hindu nationalist cause. I think there's certainly something in that. Um, you know, it does seem to be the case that that people that have kind of grown up in this, you know, new India, this India in which secularism is in in decline and and much more sort of bolder forms of of Hindutva uh are kind of become much more commonplace, a kind of synchronization of India. um that that people that that have a kind of firsthand experience of that may bring with them a rather uh bolder and and more assertive form of of identity than people that perhaps have have either lived abroad for many decades or or in fact were were born and brought up abroad. Um because I mean this the context is obviously different right I mean this is a this kind of brings us back to a kind of irony or a tension of of Hindutva that we've discussed from the at the very start which is that hindutur is majoritarian. It's an ideology which is premised around the idea that uh you know that that a particular part of the world should be run by and in the interests of of the majority community um uh who depending on how how you enumerate it can perhaps be you know perhaps 80 or more percent of of the population being Hindu in India whereas in the diaspora when you move to the diaspora you're part of a much smaller minority um where you are a minority you're part of a small minority um and you know in the early days of of the the Indian diaspora overseas um and still to a large extent to this day as well. what you see is is you know people of South Asian origin um you know mixing mixing much more um you know when there were smaller numbers of people um you know I mentioned earlier that that I think you mentioned earlier in fact that that you know in the early '7s I think there was only two Hindu temples in the UK you know there was a much nicer sort of institutional um uh organizational sort of structures and so on so people would would mix a lot more freely um in in that period. And actually, it's only in more recent decades that that you can see a lot more kind of ring fencing and a lot more emphasis placed on on religious identity over kind of broader ethnic or or cultural forms of identity. Um and so yeah, I think there is certainly a case to be made that that you know that they have that the people that have moved more recently have have been are kind of expressing a different form of hindut perhaps. Um but I think that you know we can't only frame it as a kind of recent shift and actually as I you know think I argue in the book you know Hindu nationalism and its ideology is something that has has developed and and evolved and and grown uh in the diaspora for many many decades. My guest on the show this week is Edward Anderson. He's assistant professor in history at North Umbrea University in Newcastle. He's author of the fabulous book Hindu nationalism in the Indian diaspora, transnational politics and British multiculturalism. It was selected by the economist of as one of only six books uh that they recommend I if uh you would like to get a handle on Hindutvo, what it is, how it spreads its influence, where it's come from, where it's going. Edward, uh this was a delightful conversation. You know, learned so much from your book. Um thank you so much for taking the time. Thanks. I really enjoyed talking to you. Thank you very much. Grandmasha is a co-production of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in the Hind Times. This podcast is an HT SmartCast original and is available on htsmartcast.com. You can also find us on Apple Podcast, Spotify, or wherever you get your podcasts. Don't forget to rate and review. It helps others find the show more easily. For more information about the show, to support the work we do on Grand Thea, and to find the writing we mentioned on this week's episode, visit our website, granthemasha.com. Tim Martin is our audio engineer. Mera Viz is our executive producer. Additional assistance is provided by Annabelle Richtor. Thanks for listening and see you next week. This was a Hindustan Times production brought to you by HD Smartcast. HD smart